Pfizer vaccine's efficacy is found to be around  ninety five percent. 

No evidence in the form of a DB RCT from the current outbreak that garlic or lemon (or vitamin c rich foods) can protect someone from getting COVID-19 infection.

Amid growing reports of severe allergic reactions to COVID19 vaccines regulators are warning people with a history of such reactions to take precautions before they get their shots.

Experts say the number one suspect for these reactions is an ingredient commonly found in cosmetics other medicine and laxatives called polyethylene glycol or PEG, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says the reactions are still rare and investigations are ongoing.

The ingredient in question is used to stabilize current COVID19 vaccines, But PEG has caused anaphylaxis severe allergic reactions in the past.

PEG is in both Pfizer's and Moderna's COVID19 vaccines which are currently the only ones with emergency use authorization from the Food and Drug Administration.

The rate of severe allergic reactions to the vaccines so far is a little higher than that of past vaccines though that number could change in coming weeks.

The rate at about 11 cases for every 1 million patients is still well below 1 percent and means the vaccine is considered safe.


Most of the other ingredients in the vaccine some as common as table salt and sugar are also found in a variety of other medications foods or vaccines.

coronavirus is part of a large family of respiratory viruses, known to cause illness ranging from the common cold to more severe illnesses such as Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS).

PEG is one type of lipid but both vaccines also contain others, And while ingredients like sugar and salt are commonly found in other vaccines lipids are not and experience using them may be limited.

These lipids their purpose is really to get the mRNA into a cell and we've never had mRNA vaccines, It's unlikely that anybody's allergic to the salts or the sugars but it could be any of these other lipids.



If people have had allergic reactions to other vaccines in the past health care experts recommend they talk with a doctor before getting a COVID19 vaccine.

It doesn't mean that they can't have it O'Connor said, It means that they should probably have precautions taken.

Vaccine unlikely to have long term effects.

Some people are concerned about COVID19 vaccines due to their fastpaced development but experts say they aren't worried, the vaccine safety data looks good ingredients in the vaccines are commonly found in other medications or food and longterm vaccine side effects are rare.

Vaccines have the greatest safety track record of any medical intervention in the history of medicine O'Connor said, they are the safest therapeutic option of any medication out there.

The mRNA doesn't last long in the body and is typically destroyed within minutes or hours Kennedy said so he believes that there should be no long term vaccine side effects.

Though health care professionals didn't see any reasons to be worried about long term side effects they acknowledged it's not possible to be absolutely certain at this point which is why experts are continuously tracking vaccine data.

The other unclear aspect is how long protection against COVID19 will last, health care professionals said patients who have already had COVID19 should still get vaccinated because there's a possibility they could get reinfected , Reinfections are rare but the immune protection against COVID19 may wane over time.

Our immune system is already pretty busy and we don't want to overload it she said.