

Pfizer vaccine's efficacy is found to be around ninety five percent, source - https://www.sciencemag.org/news/2021/02/question-choices-pfizer-vaccine-leader-confronting-new-coronavirus-variants.

Amid growing reports of severe allergic reactions to COVID19 vaccines regulators are warning people with a history of such reactions to take precautions before they get their shots, source - https://www.azcentral.com/story/news/local/arizona-science/2021/01/23/covid-19-vaccine-ingredient-may-cause-allergic-reactions-side-effects/4220698001/.

Experts say the number one suspect for these reactions is an ingredient commonly found in cosmetics other medicine and laxatives called polyethylene glycol or PEG, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says the reactions are still rare and investigations are ongoing.

The ingredient in question is used to stabilize current COVID19 vaccines, But PEG has caused anaphylaxis severe allergic reactions in the past.

Because it's a common ingredient that's the most suspicious but we don't have 100 percent confirmation.

PEG is in both Pfizer's and Moderna's COVID19 vaccines which are currently the only ones with emergency use authorization from the Food and Drug Administration.

The rate of severe allergic reactions to the vaccines so far is a little higher than that of past vaccines though that number could change in coming weeks.

The rate at about 11 cases for every 1 million patients is still well below 1 percent and means the vaccine is considered safe.


Most of the other ingredients in the vaccine some as common as table salt and sugar are also found in a variety of other medications foods or vaccines.

Another possible culprit behind anaphylaxis could be ingredients called lipids, Lipids don't dissolve in water and can include fats waxes and oils, Certain lipids are sometimes used as ingredients in vitamin supplements to help the body absorb the nutrients.

Rick Kennedy codirector of the Mayo Clinic Vaccine Research Group describes lipids as drops of oil that encase the mRNA or genetic material inside both vaccines, They protect the mRNA and help it slip through a cell membrane into a cell.


PEG is one type of lipid but both vaccines also contain others, And while ingredients like sugar and salt are commonly found in other vaccines lipids are not and experience using them may be limited.

These lipids their purpose is really to get the mRNA into a cell and we've never had mRNA vaccines, It's unlikely that anybody's allergic to the salts or the sugars but it could be any of these other lipids.


Most people won't have reactions to these lipids but they may experience some side effects to the vaccine, Commonly reported side effects such as fatigue muscle aches or fever are not usually signs of an allergic reaction according to medical experts but are actually signs the immune system is fighting off the novel coronavirus and the vaccine is working.

If people have had allergic reactions to other vaccines in the past health care experts recommend they talk with a doctor before getting a COVID19 vaccine.

It doesn't mean that they can't have it O'Connor said, It means that they should probably have precautions taken.

When someone has a severe allergic reaction it is often linked to a type of antibody made by the immune system called an IgE antibody according to Miriam Anand an allergist and presidentelect of the Arizona Medical Association.

The first time the immune system encounters something foreign it learns how to fight it using different types of antibodies, but if it creates too many IgE antibodies it can cause an immune system overreaction.

IgE antibodies are usually found in low levels in the blood and can have powerful downstream effects, they can trigger other types of immune cells that act as bombers against a foreign substance , One example is a mast cell as full of cytokines or proteins that can trigger inflammation.

Allergic inflammatory responses can cause rashes swelling hives and discomfort, but in severe cases these immune system overreactions can cause blood pressure to drop systemic inflammation throat swelling and other lifethreatening symptoms.

Since PEG is a fairly large molecule Kennedy said the immune system can recognize it and create antibodies against it further strengthening suspicion that PEG could be the problematic ingredient in COVID19 vaccines.

If someone has had a past reaction to PEG they're likely to react to PEG again in the future, the same rule applies to molecules that aren't PEG but that look similar.

One type of molecule that looks similar are polysorbates oily liquids often found in pharmaceutical products cosmetics and foods such as ice cream, Anand said many vaccines such as the seasonal influenza vaccine contain polysorbates.

So if they already had an anaphylactic reaction to a vaccine that contained polysorbates that means they're already making antibodies against that and therefore they could be at higher risk.

People with a history of reactions to medications or vaccines should review COVID19 vaccine ingredients with an allergist or doctor to determine their risks she added.

Allergists can test directly for ingredient reactions by pricking a patient's skin with the vaccine itself or with certain ingredients to see if hives form, it's hard to test with the Pfizer or Moderna vaccine due to short supply and cold storage requirements but doctors could test laxatives containing PEG on a patient's skin to check for allergies.

People with a history of food or seasonal allergies are still considered to be at lowrisk for an allergic reaction to the COVID19 vaccine.

The Moderna and Pfizer vaccines don't contain other ingredients that can cause allergic reactions such as eggs gelatin or latex but it's still unclear what ingredients will be in future COVID19 vaccines currently under development by companies like Johnson & Johnson and Novavax, the AstraZeneca vaccine does contain polysorbate.

Younger patients may be more likely to experience anaphylaxis, the average age of those who have experienced severe allergic reactions so far is 40 according to a recent report by the CDC, this is because they have stronger more robust immune systems and means younger patients are more likely to experience nonallergic side effects as well.

mRNA causes common side effects , all vaccines work by stimulating the immune system and training it to recognize and fight a particular substance again in the future, there are two stages of an immune system response, the innate immune response and the adaptive immune response.

The innate immune response is the body's immediate reaction when it recognizes something foreign, certain receptors on cells can spot common structural patterns found in bacterias and viruses which is what triggers the innate immune response.

As part of its innate response the immune system uses cytokines to trigger inflammation raise body temperature or cause blood to leak more easily out of blood vessels.

Typically these are good responses because they help fight foreign substances but it's important not to overstimulate the innate immune system response, the risk Kennedy said is more severe side effects.

In the case of the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines the body recognizes mRNA as foreign, mRNA is the active ingredient in the vaccine and gives cells a blueprint to make the spikes on the outside of the virus , The virus uses the spikes to enter and infect cells and immune system antibodies neutralize the virus by binding to the spikes.

Kennedy said the mRNA in the vaccines has been slightly modified probably so that it does not provoke an immediate innate immune response.

The body then has more time to learn what the spikes on the virus look like and can mount a better immune response in the future, otherwise the body might destroy the mRNA before creating longlasting antibodies for the spike.

Kennedy said the modifications likely helped blunt side effects from that innate response to avoid immune system overreactions as well.

Typically side effects from the first COVID19 vaccine shot are minimal most commonly including a sore arm but after the second shot when the body is exposed to even more mRNA and spikes it mounts a stronger innate response.

Side effects usually kick in about 12 hours after the shot according to O'Connor but fade within 24 to 36 hours, the side effects are usually mild and transient.

A lack of side effects doesn't mean the innate immune response isn't working and why some people show reactions and some don't is still a mystery.

The stronger a person's innate immune response is the stronger their adaptive or long term immune response will be, adaptive immune responses use specialized cells and antibodies trained to target specific substances, in this case the novel coronavirus spikes.

But training these cells and antibodies can take longer meaning the lasting COVID19 protection provided by the adaptive immune response doesn't kick in right away, that's why full protection from the COVID19 vaccines doesn't start until about one or two weeks after receiving the second booster shot.

Vaccine unlikely to have long term effects.

Some people are concerned about COVID19 vaccines due to their fastpaced development but experts say they aren't worried, the vaccine safety data looks good ingredients in the vaccines are commonly found in other medications or food and longterm vaccine side effects are rare.

Vaccines have the greatest safety track record of any medical intervention in the history of medicine O'Connor said, they are the safest therapeutic option of any medication out there.

The mRNA doesn't last long in the body and is typically destroyed within minutes or hours Kennedy said so he believes that there should be no long term vaccine side effects.

Though health care professionals didn't see any reasons to be worried about long term side effects they acknowledged it's not possible to be absolutely certain at this point which is why experts are continuously tracking vaccine data.

The other unclear aspect is how long protection against COVID19 will last, health care professionals said patients who have already had COVID19 should still get vaccinated because there's a possibility they could get reinfected , Reinfections are rare but the immune protection against COVID19 may wane over time.

Our immune system is already pretty busy and we don't want to overload it she said.

It has been recommended that anyone with an active or recent COVID19 infection and those with long lasting symptoms should talk with their doctors, source - https://www.moh.gov.sg/covid-19/faqs.

Once vaccinated patients should continue to take public health precautions like wearing a mask and staying six feet apart because there's no data yet on whether vaccines can prevent a person from spreading the virus to others.

This will likely be less of an issue once a population reaches herd immunity which is established once enough people have been vaccinated, even with side effects and allergic responses O'Connor believes the benefits of the vaccine far outweigh the risks.

The randomised data on immunogenicity does not suggest that there will be notably lower efficacy at older ages for the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine, however he noted that efficacy data for older adults is more limited as older adults were recruited into trials later.

The German health ministry added that the European Medicines Agency would be delivering its results on the evaluation of AstraZeneca vaccine data on Friday, source - https://www.euronews.com/2021/01/30/germany-recommends-astrazeneca-covid-vaccine-only-for-people-under-65.

The Pfizer BioNTech COVID19 vaccine is a messenger RNA (mRNA) vaccine that has both synthetic or chemically produced components and enzymatically produced components from naturally occurring substances such as proteins, the vaccine does not contain any live virus , Its inactive ingredients include potassium chloride monobasic potassium phosphate sodium chloride dibasic sodium phosphate dihydrate and sucrose as well as small amounts of other ingredients , For more information please visit cvdvaccine.

No mRNA is a transient carrier of information that does not integrate into human DNA.

Unlike a traditional vaccine that uses inactivated dead or portions of actual virus to spur an immune response mRNA delivers a message to your body’s cells via a lipid nanoparticle envelope that instructs the cells to generate the spike protein found on the surface of a coronavirus that initiates infection , Instructing cells to generate the spike protein spurs an immune response including generation of antibodies specific to the SARSCoV2 spike protein, source - https://www.pfizer.com/news/hot-topics/the_facts_about_pfizer_and_biontech_s_covid_19_vaccine.

There are no data to suggest that the PfizerBioNTech COVID19 vaccine causes infertility, it has been incorrectly suggested that COVID19 vaccines will cause infertility because of a very short amino acid sequence in the spike protein of SARSCoV2 that is partly shared with a protein in the placenta called syncytin1 , From a scientific perspective the differences between the two sequences are quite significant making it very unlikely our vaccine could generate a response that would harm the placenta, source - https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/factcheck/2020/12/14/fact-check-no-evidence-covid-19-vaccine-causes-infertility-women/3884328001/.

In line with CDC recommendations we did not test our vaccine in people with a history of severe adverse or allergic reactions to a vaccine or a vaccine ingredient, overall there were no safety signals of concern identified in our clinical trials meaning there was no signal of any serious allergic reaction.

Severe allergic reactions have been reported following the PfizerBioNTech COVID19 Vaccine during mass vaccination outside of clinical trials, Pfizer is monitoring and reviewing all reports of severe allergic reaction in coordination with health authorities , The prescribing information has a clear warning   or precaution that appropriate medical treatment and supervision should always be readily available in case of a rare anaphylactic event following the administration of the vaccine ,  You can also find the latest guidance from the CDC here.

Pfizer and BioNTech’s COVID19 vaccine is an mRNA vaccine which does not use the live virus but rather a small portion of the viral sequence of the SARSCoV2 virus to instruct the body to produce the spike protein displayed on the surface of the virus , That spike protein then generates an immune response to the virus to potentially prevent infection , The vaccine does not allow the SARSCoV2 virus to replicate and it cannot cause any known illness , No vaccine can cause a patient to develop the disease against which they were vaccinated, source - https://www.pfizer.com/news/hot-topics/the_facts_about_pfizer_and_biontech_s_covid_19_vaccine.

Potential side effects of the PfizerBioNTech COVID19 vaccine include injection site pain fatigue headache muscle pain chills joint pain fever injection site swelling injection site redness nausea malaise and lymphadenopathy (enlargement of the lymph nodes).

We will track participants in our phase 3 clinical trial for the next two years following their second dose in order to document the longterm effectiveness and safety of the vaccine, source - https://www.pfizer.com/news/hot-topics/the_facts_about_pfizer_and_biontech_s_covid_19_vaccine.

Our trial is closely monitored by Pfizer and an outside independent group of experts called a Data Monitoring Committee or DMC, trial investigators also monitor participants’ health and participants in the trial attend regular planned followup visits as part of the trial , Pfizer and BioNTech will be conducting additional studies to determine how effective and safe the vaccine is in the real world and among specific risk groups such as healthcare workers and among nursing home residents , The safety of patients is and always will be our number one priority.

We recognize that developing a potential vaccine for the prevention of COVID19 for broad use is critically important to combat the pandemic, in line with standard research practice pregnant women were not enrolled in our trial so available data on the PfizerBioNTech COVID19 vaccine administered to pregnant women are limited.

However a recent study in JAMA Network Open compared the outcomes of pregnancies in women that have    or  have not had SARSCoV2 infection which showed that SARSCoV2 infection during pregnancy was not associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes.

We will evaluate the vaccine in pregnant women in a study starting in Q1 2021 once developmental and reproductive toxicity studies are complete, People who are pregnant or breastfeeding should discuss their vaccination options with their individual health care provider.

We currently have about 1000 participants in the 1215yearold age group enrolled in our trial, This controlled approach was agreed to with the FDA to allow for initial safety assessment in a small group, We plan to evaluate and assess these participants after their second dose prior to conducting further enrollment in this age group, Enrollment for 1617year old participants will continue as planned and we will share data in due course over the next few months.

Bell’s palsy is a condition that affects the nerves controlling facial muscles and can occur after a viral infection , It is typically temporary and resolves in a few weeks , The observed frequency of reported Bell’s palsy in the vaccine group is consistent with the expected background rate in the general population and there is no indication of a causal relationship at this time , Pfizer and BioNTech together with FDA will continue to monitor for cases of Bell’s palsy as the vaccine is given to larger populations, source - https://www.reuters.com/article/uk-factcheck-bells-palsy-photo-idUSKBN28O2WD.

The active ingredient in the vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna is messenger RNA which is genetic information used to make the spike protein found on the outside of the SARSCoV2 virus that causes COVID19 , The spike protein is the part of the virus that attaches to human cells , The spike protein is recognized by the body’s immune system to develop protection from infection, soruce - https://www.uab.edu/uabunited/covid-19-vaccine.

The spike protein alone cannot cause COVID19, Once the spike protein is created it causes the immune system to make antibodies against the virus , These antibodies can then provide protection if a person comes into contact with the virus , mRNA vaccines are noninfectious and do not enter the human cell nucleus so the mRNA cannot be inserted into human DNA , mRNA vaccines do not have the ability to cause cancer.

All vaccines help develop immunity by imitating an infection , Vaccines greatly reduce the risk of infection by working with the body’s natural defenses to safely develop immunity to disease , When germs such as viruses invade the body they attack and multiply , This invasion called an infection is what causes illness , The immune system uses several tools to fight infection , The first time the body encounters a germ or virus it can take several days for the body to make and use all the germfighting tools needed to fight the infection , After the infection the immune system remembers what it learned about how to protect the body against that disease.

While some vaccines such as flu vaccines use dead or deactivated virus to imitate the infection the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines currently approved for COVID19 do not , They uses the body’s messenger RNA to teach the immune system to recognize the SARSCoV2 virus , A person cannot get COVID19 from the vaccine.

The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines work the exact same way and are equally successful both at  ninety five percent efficacy , A person should not be worried if they received one vaccine while a friend received the other – the end benefit of protection from the COVID19 virus is nearly identical and will help us move past this pandemic if everyone gets inoculated.

While you will have significant immunity to the virus data is not conclusive yet as to if people can still transmit the virus to those who are not vaccinated , Until there is significant inoculation across the country and world it will be key for everyone to keep wearing masks and social distancing to curb the spread of the virus , Once a majority of people are vaccinated the virus will eventually tire out since there are not enough hosts to sustain it ,

No patients have died from receiving any of the vaccines during the trials , One patient in the AstraZeneca trial died; but this person received a placebo not the actual vaccine, source - https://www.reuters.com/article/uk-factcheck-trial-idUSKBN28K1U3 ,

Most patients develop antibodies after they have COVID19 but not all patients do , In other coronavirus infections (such as the common cold) we know that these antibodies last only three to four months before we are susceptible to infection again , The vaccine produces a strong immune response and lasts at least four months , The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends that patients who recently had COVID19 should wait 90 days before receiving the vaccine.

Nanotechnology is the study of extremely small things and can be used across many fields of science , The vaccines do use nanotechnology through lipid nanoparticles that are the fatty molecular envelopes that help strands of mRNA the genetic messenger for making DNA code into proteins evade the body’s biological gatekeepers and reach their target cell without being degraded , The claim that microchips and nanotransducers are in the vaccine stems from a fake video that suggests Bill Gates claimed to have added this technology to the vaccine through piecemealed pieces of video , This is false, source - https://www.statnews.com/2020/12/01/how-nanotechnology-helps-mrna-covid19-vaccines-work/.

Neither the Pfizer nor the Moderna vaccine uses cell lines that originated in fetal tissue taken from the body of an aborted baby at any stage of design development or production, source - https://www.ncronline.org/news/coronavirus/use-pfizer-moderna-covid-19-vaccines-morally-acceptable-say-bishops.

The CDC recommends that anyone who receives a COVID vaccine be observed for 15 minutes while people with a history of anaphylaxis should be observed for 30 minutes , This is to ensure that there are no immediate adverse effects which are tremendously rare, source - https://www.uab.edu/news/health/item/11813-covid-19-vaccine-facts-and-figures.

Multiple studies have shown that vaccines are incredibly safe and effective in children , Vaccines save lives and prevent both morbidity and mortality from many illnesses , The CDC posted clearly reviewed concerns from parents at www ,cdc ,gov   or vaccinesafety   or concerns   or autism, source - https://www.uab.edu/news/health/item/11813-covid-19-vaccine-facts-and-figures.

The FDA has given emergency use authorization to the Pfizer and BioNTech COVID 19 vaccine , This vaccine has an efficacy rate of  ninety five percent , This means that about  ninety five percent of people who get the vaccine are protected from becoming seriously ill with the virus , This vaccine is for people age 16 and older , It requires two injections given 21 days apart, source - https://www.gov.sg/article/what-you-should-know-about-the-covid-19-vaccine.

The FDA has given emergency use authorization to the Moderna COVID 19 vaccine , Data has shown that the vaccine has an efficacy rate of 94 ,1 percent , This vaccine is for people age 18 and older , It requires two injections given 28 days apart, source - https://www.npr.org/sections/health-shots/2020/12/15/946554638/fda-analysis-of-moderna-covid-19-vaccine-finds-it-effective-and-safe#:~:text=FDA%3A%20Moderna%20COVID%2D19%20Vaccine,%3A%20Shots%20%2D%20Health%20News%20%3A%20NPR.

If necessary, the second dose of the Pfizer BioNTech or the Moderna COVID 19 vaccine can be given up to 6 weeks after the first dose , There’s little research about how well the vaccines work beyond this time frame.

Both the Pfizer BioNTech and the Moderna COVID 19 vaccines use messenger RNA (mRNA) , Coronaviruses have a spike like structure on their surface called an S protein , COVID 19 mRNA vaccines give cells instructions for how to make a harmless piece of an S protein , After vaccination, your cells begin making the protein pieces and displaying them on cell surfaces , Your immune system will recognize that the protein doesn't belong there and begin building an immune response and making antibodies.

A COVID 19 vaccine can cause mild side effects after the first or second dose, including Pain, redness or swelling where the shot was given, Fever, Fatigue, Headache, Muscle pain, Chills, Joint pain, source - https://www.aarp.org/health/conditions-treatments/info-2020/coronavirus-vaccine-side-effects.html.

If you have a history of severe allergic reactions not related to vaccines or injectable medications, you may still get a COVID 19 vaccine , You should be monitored for 30 minutes after getting the vaccine, source - https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/vaccines/safety/allergic-reaction.html.

If you’ve had an immediate allergic reaction to other vaccines or injectable medications, ask your doctor if you should get a COVID 19 vaccine , If you’ve ever had an immediate allergic reaction to any ingredient in a COVID 19 vaccine, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends not getting that specific vaccine , Also, people who are allergic to polysorbate should not get an mRNA COVID 19 vaccine.

If you have an immediate allergic reaction after getting the first dose of a COVID 19 vaccine, don’t get the second dose.

There is no COVID 19 vaccine yet for children under age 16 , Several companies have begun enrolling children as young as age 12 in COVID 19 vaccine clinical trials , Studies including younger children will begin soon.

COVID 19 vaccination might not be recommended for people with certain health conditions , Talk to your doctor if you have questions about getting the vaccine.

Getting COVID 19 might offer some natural protection or immunity from reinfection with the virus that causes COVID 19 , But it's not clear how long this protection lasts , Because reinfection is possible and COVID 19 can cause severe medical complications, it's recommended that people who have already had COVID 19 get a COVID 19 vaccine , If you’ve had COVID 19, you might delay vaccination until 90 days after your diagnosis , Reinfection with the virus that causes COVID 19 is uncommon in the 90 days after you are first infected, source - https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/prevention.html.

Avoid close contact, this means avoiding close contact (within about 6 feet, or 2 meters) with anyone who is sick or has symptoms , Also, keep distance between yourself and others, this is especially important if you have a higher risk of serious illness, source - https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/prevention.html.

Wear cloth face coverings in public places, cloth face coverings offer extra protection in places such as the grocery store, where it's difficult to avoid close contact with others, surgical masks may be used if available, N ninety five respirators should be reserved for health care providers, source - https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/prevention.html.

Practice good hygiene, wash your hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds, or use an alcohol based hand sanitizer that contains at least 60 percent alcohol, cover your mouth and nose with your elbow or a tissue when you cough or sneeze, Throw away the used tissue, Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth, avoid sharing dishes, glasses, bedding and other household items if you're sick, clean and disinfect high touch surfaces daily, source - https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/prevent-getting-sick/prevention.html.

Stay home if you're sick, stay home from work, school and public areas if you're sick, unless you're going to get medical care, avoid public transportation, taxis and ride sharing if you're sick.

The Pfizer vaccine is safe , The coronavirus vaccine has been tested on 43,500 people in six countries and no safety concerns have been raised, source - https://www.bbc.com/news/health-54873105#:~:text=The%20developers%20%2D%20Pfizer%20and%20BioNTech,the%20end%20of%20the%20month..

All vaccines undergo rigorous testing and have oversight from experienced regulators.

If trials go well, the next stage involves an expert review of all data by the MHRA or the European Medicines Agency (EMA).

Public safety comes first and regulators check that trials show a vaccine meets high standards of safety and effectiveness before granting a licence.

The MHRA said data to be reviewed must include results from the lab and clinical trials in humans; manufacturing and quality controls, product sampling, and testing of the final product , The factories where vaccines are made are also inspected before approval.

Once the MHRA has reviewed the data, it will seek advice from the Government’s independent advisory body, the Commission on Human Medicines , They will also critically assess the data before advising the Government on the safety, quality and effectiveness of any potential vaccine.

COVID 19 vaccines are medicines that prevent disease caused by the novel coronavirus SARS CoV 2 by triggering an immune response.

Safe and effective vaccines for COVID 19 are needed because they protect individuals from becoming ill , This is particularly important for healthcare professionals and vulnerable populations such as older people and people with long term diseases, source - https://www.gov.sg/article/what-you-should-know-about-the-covid-19-vaccine.

The COVID 19 pandemic is a global crisis, with devastating health, social and economic impacts , COVID 19 can cause severe disease and death , It has unknown long term consequences in people of all ages, including in otherwise healthy people.

Importance of vaccination is it is one of the key strategies to protect us and our loved ones against COVID 19, along with safe management measures, contact tracing and testing , The Expert Committee on COVID 19 Vaccination proposed to vaccinate the population as widely as possible to not only reduce the number of people susceptible to the disease but also the chances of transmission , As more of us are vaccinated, the harder it will be for the virus to spread, and the safer we will all be as a society.

A comprehensive vaccination coverage will then enable us to re open further, allow more social activities to resume, and facilitate the recovery of our economy , However, until a significant proportion of the population is vaccinated, Singaporeans must continue to observe safe management measures, source - https://www.gov.sg/article/what-you-should-know-about-the-covid-19-vaccine.

While Singapore currently has a low rate of local transmission for COVID 19, we remain vulnerable to the threat of a surge in cases , As such, it is important that we achieve a comprehensive coverage of COVID 19 vaccination as possible across the entire population.

Safe for the vulnerable, The safety and efficacy of COVID 19 vaccines for all Singaporeans is of utmost importance , Only vaccines that comply with the World Health Organisation’s guidelines and meet strict standards of safety, quality and efficacy will be used for our population.

Multiple safety checks are in place before the vaccines are rolled out in Singapore , For example, all vaccines to be deployed in Singapore must be authorised by the Health Sciences Authority , An expert panel, comprising 18 scientists and clinicians, was also formed to advise the Government on therapeutics and vaccines , In identifying suitable vaccines, the panel relies on data that comes from the different vaccine companies at their respective stages of clinical trials.

Vaccine trials have not been skipped, Vaccine trials often take years because not only do they need to recruit a lot of participants to be able to evaluate safety and efficacy, they then need to wait for natural infections to take place, The COVID19 vaccine trials have moved along faster thanks to extra financial support from the government and other funding sources, and the high prevalence of the virus in the community,they didn’t skip any steps.

More than 40,000 people were enrolled in the Pfizer vaccine trials, and more than 30,000 in the Moderna vaccine trials, source - https://www.gov.sg/article/what-you-should-know-about-the-covid-19-vaccine.

That’s a lot of people, but if the virus were rare, that still wouldn’t be enough people, but because the virus is running so rampant throughout the U.S and other places in the world, this was actually a good number of people to show a difference between the vaccinated and unvaccinated groups.

 Reported vaccine efficacy rates of 94 or  ninety five percent are for symptomatic disease only, Because the clinical trials for Pfizer and Moderna did not require regular testing for COVID19, they were not a good indication of how well the vaccine protects against asymptomatic disease.

The vaccine was developed too fast I don’t think they know enough about it.
These vaccines could be made fast and still be safe for three simple reasons.
There was a lot of research done on the kind of virus that causes COVID19 before this virus showed up. So scientists had a big head start about the kind of vaccine that would work best to fight this virus.
A lot of government money was spent to get many companies to work on this vaccine and to put all of their scientists to work on it around the clock. That helped speed everything up.
While every step that has to be followed to make a new vaccine and be sure it is safe was followed, some of the steps were done at the same time instead of one after another. It is like cooking several parts of a meal at once instead of cooking one course at a time. You get done sooner but it’s just as good.
In fact, the two vaccines that have been approved to protect against COVID19 were studied on more than 70,000 volunteers, including adults of all ages and different racial and ethnic groups, and were found to work very well and be equally safe for all.
Only 1 percent of people who get COVID19 die of it. Won’t the vaccine kill more people than that?
COVID19 is a lethal disease. Seasonal flu can be very dangerous but it kills about one person in every thousand infected, while COVID19 kills one out of a hundred people who are infected. No one has died from the two approved vaccines.
Some people wonder if that could be just because volunteers who took part in vaccine trials were not tracked for long enough for us to know if there will be deaths. It’s true that we only have 3 months of experience watching people who got these vaccines, but we do have experience with other vaccines and the vast majority of ill effects show up within hours or days. There is no basis for believing we will see something different here.
The vaccines can make you sick with COVID 19
The current vaccines don’t include the virus in any form – no live virus, no weakened virus, no dead virus. You just cannot get the disease from the vaccine.
Some other vaccines use the virus they are fighting in some form to charge up an immune response. The current COVID19 vaccines do not work that way so there is no way that they could give you COVID19.
It is possible to catch the disease in the first few days after your vaccination before the vaccine has a chance to work, but that would not mean you got sick from the vaccine. For most people, the vaccine needs 7 days before it starts to work. And both these vaccines require a second dose before a person is fully protected from getting sick from the virus.
It is easy to be confused about this, because you might feel some side effects for a while after getting the vaccine. In fact, about half of the volunteers who tested these vaccines experienced some side effects: most of these effects were mild and did not require any treatment or change in daily activity and lasted for 12 days. What they were feeling was not COVID19, however, not even a mild case of COVID19. They were feeling the symptoms of an
immune response, which means that the vaccine was at work developing antibodies to protect them from COVID19.
These vaccines use genetic material to fight the virus. That means they can affect our genes.
These vaccines do use genetic material, called mRNA to fight the virus but it doesn’t do anything to your genes.
Just as its name says, mRNA works like a messenger. In this case, the mRNA used in the vaccine tells your body to make a protein that kicks your immune system into action. The mRNA lets your body get a message from the virus without having to run into the virus directly.
But it doesn’t affect your genes. Keep in mind that you encounter genetic material from other plants and animals all the time, when you eat them. Your body breaks them down into their basic chemicals, using the proteins and fats and carbohydrates they contain to give you energy and make your cells work.
Like the food you eat, the mRNA you get in a vaccine does have an affect on your health, but it doesn’t change your genes or your DNA.
They say that childhood vaccines can cause autism don’t these vaccines contain dangerous chemicals that can have serious health effects?
Not true on either count. Childhood vaccines are one of the best and safest protections against dangerous diseases that have been developed and these vaccines have been carefully tested for safety as well.
First about the autism scare – it was started by an English doctor who was later shown to be a fraud. The lie lived on because some celebrities bought in and ran with it. The result? Millions of dollars wasted on proving the truth over and over (for example, one study looked at every single baby born in Denmark for 8 years and showed there was absolutely no link). Even so, some scared parents still avoid vaccines and we see deadly outbreaks of diseases we could totally prevent.
The list of ingredients in the COVID vaccines is pretty simple – mRNA, plus some fats (called lipids, which is another word for fats) plus some salt and sugar to stabilize the mix. You can actually find the ingredients on the Food and Drug Administration’s COVID19 vaccine website. Nothing you’ll see is out of the ordinary.
The vaccine contains a micro chip that can be used to track my movements.
The vaccine does not contain any kind of tracking device whatsoever.
This story seems to have spread on the Internet based on a Facebook post that said Bill Gates was planning to use a microchip to identify people who have been tested for COVID19. In fact, Mr. Gates had commented on a research study that had nothing to do with COVID19 and nothing to do with anything being implanted. The study was about a method
to be sure who has gotten vaccinated in countries that have high death rates from vaccine preventable diseases and poor health data systems. Like the story about autism, this is a story that is hard to stop even after it has been debunked over and over.
The vaccine is being pushed on people against their will.
Getting the vaccine is totally voluntary. Doctors and public health officials are trying to provide people with good information on the safety and effectiveness of these vaccines so that they can make an informed decision when it is their turn to be offered the vaccine. No one is required to get vaccinated.
You can’t trust the people who made these vaccines. Big Pharma –the people who developed these vaccines, are just out to make money, and they pay doctors to say their products are safe.
While there are terrible examples of drug companies putting profit before safety (for example, by aggressively promoting highly addictive opioid painkillers), the process for developing these vaccines and the makeup of the products themselves has been transparent, with more information available to independent scientists than ever before.
The development of these vaccines has been carried out in the public eye. In fact, reviews of vaccine safety and efficacy (a term used to mean that the vaccines work) have been published for anyone to read. That means you or your doctor can read the reviews and decide whether the research seems solid and the findings are believable.
The people reviewing the research include medical leaders from diverse settings all over the country and observers (nonvoting members) representing a wide range of medical groups, including some that have fought hard against medical racism. They have not been paid for this work – they have been involved to verify the quality of the research and to assure that equity is protected throughout the process. For a list of names of the reviewers and the places they work, visit the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) website. You can learn more about these people by looking them up online.
Doctors do not make extra money for giving vaccines. They are paid for a medical visit, same as any other primary care visit.
Black and Latinx communities are being singled out to get the vaccine because it hasn’t really been proven to be safe.
There are certainly historical reasons for Black and Latinx communities to fear being singled out. The concern is justified because people of color and marginalized groups have, in the past, been coerced and subjugated to participating in drug trials and medical procedures without informed consent, patient protections, or ethical practices. That is not the case here, however. Black and Latinx communities have not been singled out to get the vaccine. But groups are being offered the vaccine based on the risks faced by the people in the group. So, the answer is NO to singling anyone out but YES, Black and Latinx communities could be
offered the vaccines earlier than other communities where infection, hospitalization and death rates have not been as high.
The two vaccines now available were tested on diverse populations. In fact, efforts were made to assure inclusion of Black and Latinx volunteers in proportions equal to their proportion in the population just to make sure there weren’t factors that would make a vaccine less effective or less safe in either of those groups. A big effort was made to include members of those groups, to assure that they would not be victims of medical neglect, which is the other side of the coin in regard to medical racism.
The very top priority for getting vaccinated now that the vaccines are available are frontline workers in healthcare. This includes clinical staff such as doctors, nurses, and therapists as well as people who work in other areas like laboratories and hospital environmental services. They are prioritized because they are at higher risk of being exposed to the virus and they are critical to keeping other people alive. These same criteria are being used to decide who is next in line, as we need to prioritize vaccinating some people before others while there is limited supply of the vaccine. Once there is plenty of vaccine available, everyone who wants to get vaccinated should have easy access to the vaccine.
There is good reason for Black and Latinx communities to demand equal and early access to vaccination. Black and Latinx residents, along with Native Americans and Native Hawaiians, have been most likely to be infected (often as a result of poor working or living conditions), most likely to require hospitalization if infected, and most likely to die from COVID19. They‘re also the communities that suffer most severe consequences if illness excludes them from the workforce. If you see billboards or hear advertising encouraging Black and Latinx residents of LA to opt for vaccination, it reflects these concerns. LA wants those who have been hardest hit to have the opportunity to be vaccinated as soon as possible.
The stakes for Black and Latinx residents of LA are high. Please read what you can about the vaccines from reliable sources and talk to wellinformed people you trust your doctor, a science teacher you know, a pharmacist – and ask them to respond to your questions and concerns. Your questions are important and deserve to be answered by knowledgeable and trusted individuals.
I don’t need the vaccine if I already had COVID19.
We don’t know how long natural immunity the immunity you get from having been sick lasts. We also don’t know if it is complete. There have been a few welldocumented cases of people being infected twice. So even if you have had COVID19 and recovered, you will benefit from the vaccine.



There is a small bit of truth to this myth—vaccines have helped to dramatically reduce, but not eliminate, the number of cases of vaccine-preventable diseases in the U.S. However, diseases such as pertussis (whooping cough), influenza, hepatitis and meningitis are still around and can cause serious illness or even death. It’s also important to remember that visitors, both temporary and permanent, come to the U.S. every day from countries where many of these diseases, almost unheard of in this country, are quite common and visitors may bring these infections with them. While polio and German measles (rubella) have been eliminated from the U.S., they still occur in other countries, source - https://www.texaschildrens.org/departments/center-vaccine-awareness-and-research-cvar/vaccine-facts-and-myths.

There is always a possibility that you can develop a disease if you have not been vaccinated. Protecting yourself and your family by being vaccinated is the best way to ensure protection against vaccine-preventable diseases. Learn more about vaccine-preventable diseases.

  Healthy children do not need to be immunized.

Vaccines are given to prevent infectious diseases in healthy children who were the victims before vaccines were available. Even healthy children can get very sick and be admitted to the hospital or even die from a vaccine-preventable disease. Vaccinations are an important way of helping your child stay healthy.

  I’m increasing my infant’s chance of developing SIDS if I have him or her vaccinated.

This well-known myth resulted in research to find if there is any connection between sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) and vaccinations. A review of this research from the Institute of Medicine reported that “all controlled studies that have compared immunized versus non-immunized children have found either no association…or a decreased risk of SIDS among immunized children.”

  Since most vaccines are not 100 percent effective, there’s really no need to get them.

It’s true that vaccines are not effective 100 percent of the time, but that doesn’t mean that you should skip any recommended vaccination. Most vaccines protect against disease 85 percent to 99 percent of the time, making vaccination the best way to avoid these diseases. In addition, for some vaccine-preventable diseases, the seriousness of the disease may be less for someone who has received the vaccine. Finally, the more people who get the vaccine, the less likely the disease will be present in the community where it can spread to people who are unable to get the vaccine either because they are too young or have certain medical conditions. This is called  herd immunity .

  The side effects of vaccines are worse than the diseases they are meant to prevent.

In the great majority of cases, the side effects from vaccines are quite minimal (such as injection-site soreness or a slight fever). Yes, several vaccines do have potentially serious side effects, but they are extremely rare and deaths caused by vaccines are almost unheard of. For example, according to the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System, between 1990 and 1992, there was only one reported incident of a death that may have been associated with a vaccine. In many ways, vaccines are victims of their own success. Before vaccines, millions of children contracted measles, polio, Haemophilus influenza type B, pertussis and other serious diseases each year. Thousands died or were seriously damaged. Even with advanced medical care in 2009, serious complications and death occur from vaccine-preventable diseases. Vaccination is the best form of protection.

  It’s not safe to get more than one vaccine at a time.

When parents first read the child-and-adolescent vaccine schedule, it’s not unusual for them to be concerned about how many vaccines are given at one time. However, research has shown it is safe for healthy individuals to receive more than one vaccine at a time. Not only is it safe, but it also protects the person as quickly as possible. It is convenient because parents do not have to make as many visits to their health care providers as they would if they were getting vaccinations one at a time.

  Alternative vaccine schedules are a good idea if you are worried about giving too many vaccines at once.

Alternative vaccine schedules are not a good idea. The current vaccination schedule is designed to protect infants against serious diseases as early as possible. Delaying or splitting up vaccinations leaves children, and the general public, unnecessarily vulnerable to serious diseases. The schedules advocated by Dr. Sears are also cumbersome (12 visits over 2 years) and are not supported by science.

  Some of the illnesses that vaccines prevent are not a big deal.

For some children and adults, diseases like chickenpox (Varicella) or rotavirus lead to a mild illness. But that is certainly not the case for everyone. Chickenpox can cause serious complications, including pneumonia and predisposition to being infected by group A Streptococcus (GAS) and Staphylococcus aureus bacteria, both of which can be life-threatening. Pregnant women who get chickenpox may miscarry or the fetus may have abnormalities, such a skin scars or blindness. Each year in the U.S., rotavirus leads to more than 200,000 emergency room visits, 70,000 hospitalizations, and 20 to 60 deaths. Even healthy children can die from influenza. Since vaccine-preventable diseases area constant threat, vaccination is the best protection.

  Vaccines cause the illnesses they’re supposed to prevent.

This myth almost always surfaces during flu season because other respiratory illnesses are common at this time. In regards to the influenza vaccines, neither the inactivated influenza vaccine (the flu shot) nor the live attenuated influenza vaccine (nasal spray) can cause a person to develop influenza.

In regards to the other vaccines on the schedule approved by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Academy of Family Physicians, the chance of contracting the disease a vaccine has been proven to protect against is minimal to impossible. For vaccines that contain live weakened viruses, such as the chickenpox or MMR, a patient may develop a very mild illness that would be much less severe if the person did not receive the vaccination and contracted the disease..

  A preservative used in vaccines causes autism.

Preservatives are used in vaccines to prevent contamination with bacteria or fungi. This myth arose because in the past a mercury-containing preservative called thimerosal was used in vaccines. Thimerosal contains ethylmercury, a different form than naturally occurring mercury.

Naturally occurring mercury or methylmercury , can cause health problems in humans when taken at high levels, but has not been shown to cause autism. Several large studies in the U.S., the United Kingdom and Denmark have shown that children who received vaccines that contained the preservative thimerosal were not at a higher risk of developing autism. In Denmark and in California, the number of children diagnosed with autism rose after thimerosal was removed from all vaccines. These studies were large enough to detect even a small risk of autism if it had been present. The Institute of Medicine in 2004 and the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program in 2010 rejected claims that thimerosal causes autism.

Thimerosal is no longer used as a preservative in any childhood vaccine except the influenza vaccine. The small amount of mercury contained in the influenza vaccine is much lower than the amount a breast-fed infant receives naturally. Learn more about vaccines and autism, source - https://www.texaschildrens.org/departments/center-vaccine-awareness-and-research-cvar/vaccine-facts-and-myths.

  The MMR (Measles, Mumps, Rubella) vaccine causes autism.

This myth arises because the timing of autism diagnosis often coincides with the time of MMR vaccination (age 15-18 months). Affected children, however, often demonstrate signs of autism before this, suggesting another cause. This myth was exaggerated in 1998 after the journal Lancet published the Wakefield study of 11 children (8 with autism) who had intestinal complaints and developed autism within 1 month of receiving the MMR vaccine. 10 of the paper's authors, as well as the hospital attended by the patients, have since disassociated themselves from the study. In February 2010, the Lancet retracted the paper. The Institute of Medicine in 2004 and the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program in 2009 rejected a  causal relationship  between MMR and autism. Numerous large-scale population studies examining hundreds and thousands of children who were examined over long time periods have proven that MMR does not cause autism, source - https://www.cdc.gov/vaccinesafety/vaccines/mmr-vaccine.html.

  The best place to get an injection is always in the buttocks.

Actually, the buttocks are rarely recommended for vaccine injections because the gluteal region has a significant layer of fat, and there’s a chance of damaging the sciatic nerve. Depending upon if the injection is intramuscular, subcutaneous or intradermal, a vaccine injection will be given in either the thigh (usually only for young infants and toddlers) or upper arm, source - https://www.texaschildrens.org/departments/center-vaccine-awareness-and-research-cvar/vaccine-facts-and-myths.

  Vaccines are not tested enough.

Before any vaccine is licensed and recommended, it must go through a lengthy testing process in thousands of people to ensure it's safety. After licensure, vaccines are continually monitored for any uncommon and rare side effects by examining disease reports from each health department nationwide and vaccine surveillance systems such as Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS) and Vaccine Safety Datalink (VSD). Learn more about how vaccines are made, licensed and recommended, source - https://www.texaschildrens.org/departments/center-vaccine-awareness-and-research-cvar/vaccine-facts-and-myths.

mRNA vaccines have strands of genetic material called mRNA inside a special coating. That coating protects the mRNA from enzymes in the body that would otherwise break it down. It also helps the mRNA enter the dendritic cells and macrophages in the lymph node cells near the vaccination site, source - https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/covid-19/hcp/mrna-vaccine-basics.html.

mRNA can most easily be described as instructions for the cell on how to make a piece of the “spike protein” that is unique to SARS-CoV-2. Since only part of the protein is made, it does not do any harm to the vaccinated person, but it is antigenic.

After the piece of the spike protein is made, the cell breaks down the mRNA strand and disposes of it using enzymes in the cell. The mRNA strand never enters the cell’s nucleus or affects genetic material.

Once displayed on the cell surface, the spike protein causes the immune system to begin producing antibodies which means the immune system is primed to protect against future infection.

No, mRNA vaccines cannot alter a person’s DNA. mRNA from the vaccine never enters the nucleus of the cell and does not affect or interact with a person’s DNA. Read more about understanding and explaining mRNA COVID-19 vaccines.

No, mRNA vaccines cannot alter a person’s DNA. mRNA from the vaccine never enters the nucleus of the cell and does not affect or interact with a person’s DNA. Read more about understanding and explaining mRNA COVID-19 vaccines.

The minimum order size and increment for Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine is 1 ninety five multidose vials (1 tray) per order. A thermal shipping container can hold up to 5 trays or 975 multidose vials.

Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine is authorized and recommended for persons 16 years of age and older.

The recommendation for the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine should be implemented in conjunction with the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practice’s (ACIP) interim recommendations for allocating initial supply of COVID-19 vaccines.

All persons indicated for vaccination should receive 2 doses at least 3 weeks (21 days) apart. mRNA COVID-19 vaccines are not interchangeable with each other or with other COVID-19 vaccine products. Both doses of the series should be completed with the same product. However, if two doses of different mRNA COVID-19 vaccine products are inadvertently administered, no additional doses of either product are recommended at this time.

The need for and timing of booster doses for mRNA COVID-19 vaccines has not been established. No additional doses beyond the two-dose primary series are recommended at this time, source - https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/covid-19/hcp/mrna-vaccine-basics.html.


Previous or Current SARS-CoV-2 Infection
Data is limited on the efficacy of the vaccine in people who have previously had SARS-CoV-2.

Vaccination should be offered to persons regardless of history of prior symptomatic or asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection. Viral testing to assess for acute SARS-CoV-2 infection or serologic testing to assess for prior infection solely for the purposes of vaccine decision-making is not recommended.

Vaccination of persons with known current SARS-CoV-2 infection should be deferred until the person has recovered from the acute illness (if the person had symptoms) and criteria have been met for them to discontinue isolation. This recommendation applies to persons who develop SARS-CoV-2 infection before receiving any vaccine doses as well as those who develop SARS-CoV-2 infection after the first dose but before receipt of the second dose.

At study enrollment in the Phase 3 clinical trial detailed above, 3  percent of participants had serologic evidence of prior infection. Among this population, the attack rate of infection was low in both groups over the course of the study (9 in the placebo group and 10 in the vaccinated group), according to a briefing document presented to FDA.

At the time of the interim analysis, 1,747 people in the vaccinated group had positive serology for SARS-CoV-2, compared to 1847 in the placebo group. There was one symptomatic infection in the vaccinated group and seven in the placebo group, which would imply vaccine efficacy, but the number of events are too small to draw conclusions.

What is unknown about this data is when these people were infected, which would have bearing on their antibody titers. In addition, by definition these were people who had never had symptomatic COVID-19 disease, and thus were asymptomatic; given data suggests people with milder illness may have a less robust antibody response, this data cannot be extrapolated to people with prior symptomatic disease. The trial did collect serum and notes they will be reporting on the efficacy of the vaccine in seropositive people in the future.

In the interim, CDC recommends offering vaccination to individuals regardless of history of prior symptomatic or asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection. Viral testing to assess for acute SARS-CoV-2 infection or serologic testing to assess for prior infection solely for the purposes of vaccine decision-making is not recommended. Vaccination of individuals with known current SARS-CoV-2 infection should be deferred until the person has recovered from the acute illness (if the person had symptoms) and criteria have been met for them to discontinue isolation.

As current evidence suggests that reinfection is uncommon in the 90 days after initial infection, CDC states that individuals with documented acute SARS-CoV-2 infection in the preceding 90 days may delay vaccination until near the end of this period, if desired.


Passive Antibody Therapy Recipients
No clinical trial data exists on the use of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine in people who have previously received monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma for COVID-19.

Based on the estimated half-life of such therapies as well as evidence suggesting that reinfection is uncommon in the 90 days after initial infection, vaccination should be deferred for at least 90 days, as a precautionary measure until additional information becomes available, to avoid interference of the antibody treatment with vaccine-induced immune responses. 

For persons receiving antibody therapies not specific to COVID-19 treatment (e.g., intravenous immunoglobulin, RhoGAM), administration of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines either simultaneously with or at any interval before or after receipt of an antibody-containing product is unlikely to substantially impair development of a protective antibody response. Thus, there is no recommended minimum interval between other antibody therapies (i.e., those that are not specific to COVID-19 treatment) and mRNA COVID-19 vaccination.


People Living with HIV   or Immunocompromised
One hundred and ninety-six individuals with stable HIV disease were included in the Phase 2   or 3 trial of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine. The safety data on this group is to be reported separately. People with significant immunocompromise were not included in the trial. As such, there is currently not data on vaccine efficacy or safety in these groups.

Persons with HIV infection or other immunocompromising conditions, or who take immunosuppressive medications or therapies might be at increased risk for severe COVID-19. Data are not currently available to establish vaccine safety and efficacy in these groups. Persons with stable HIV infection were included in mRNA COVID-19 vaccine clinical trials, though data remain limited. Immunocompromised individuals may receive COVID-19 vaccination if they have no contraindications to vaccination. However, they should be counseled about the unknown vaccine safety profile and effectiveness in immunocompromised populations, as well as the potential for reduced immune responses and the need to continue to follow all current guidance to protect themselves against COVID-19. Antibody testing is not recommended to assess for immunity to COVID-19 following mRNA COVID-19 vaccination.

At this time, re-vaccination is not recommended after immune competence is regained in persons who received mRNA COVID-19 vaccines during chemotherapy or treatment with other immunosuppressive drugs. Recommendations on re-vaccination or additional doses of mRNA COVID-19 vaccines may be updated as additional information is available.

Pregnancy
Regarding use of the vaccine in pregnant people, safety information provided by Pfizer (pages 24-25) states: “All pregnancies have a risk of birth defect, loss, or other adverse outcomes. In the US general population, the estimated background risk of major birth defects and miscarriage in clinically recognized pregnancies is 2  percent to 4  percent and 15  percent to 20  percent, respectively.”

Of note, women were screened for pregnancy prior to each trial vaccination, according to a Pfizer-BioNTech briefing document. A total of 23 pregnancies occurred, some after vaccination and some that occurred prior to vaccination but were not detected via screening. Twelve pregnant individuals received the vaccine, and 11 received placebo. No unsolicited adverse events, including spontaneous abortion, occurred. Trials of the vaccine including pregnant people are planned. It is also noteworthy that mRNA vaccines are not live vaccines, that normal cellular processes degrade the mRNA quickly and that the mRNA does not enter the nucleus of cells.

The EUA does not exclude pregnant people; providers who wish to offer BNT162b2 to pregnant people may do so.  Based on current knowledge, experts believe that mRNA vaccines are unlikely to pose a risk to the pregnant person or the fetus because mRNA vaccines are not live vaccines. The mRNA in the vaccine is degraded quickly by normal cellular processes and does not enter the nucleus of the cell. However, the potential risks of mRNA vaccines to the pregnant person and the fetus are unknown because these vaccines have not been studied in pregnant people.

If pregnant people are part of a group that is recommended to receive a COVID-19 vaccine (e.g., healthcare personnel), they may choose to be vaccinated. A conversation between the patient and their clinical team may assist with decisions regarding the use of a mRNA COVID-19 vaccine, though a conversation with a healthcare provider is not required prior to vaccination. When making a decision, pregnant people and their healthcare providers should consider the level of COVID-19 community transmission, the patient’s personal risk of contracting COVID-19, the risks of COVID-19 to the patient and potential risks to the fetus, the efficacy of the vaccine, the side effects of the vaccine, and the lack of data about the vaccine during pregnancy.

Side effects can occur with COVID-19 vaccine use in pregnant people, similar to those expected among non-pregnant people. Pregnant people who experience fever following vaccination may be counseled to take acetaminophen as fever has been associated with adverse pregnancy outcomes. Acetaminophen may be offered as an option for pregnant people experiencing other post-vaccination symptoms as well.

In December 2020, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG) recommended that COVID-19 vaccines should not be withheld from pregnant individuals who meet criteria for vaccination based on ACIP-recommended priority groups. The Society for Maternal Fetal Medicine stated that the safety risk of mRNA vaccination for pregnant or lactating people appears low, recommended pregnant women be offered vaccination and noted the decision to receive the vaccine should be guided by an individual’s risk of contracting COVID-19 and other individual factors.


Lactation
Regarding use of the vaccine in lactating people, safety information provided by Pfizer (pages 24-25) states: “Data are not available to assess the effects of Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine on the breastfed infant or on milk production   or excretion.”

According to a December 2020 CDC presentation, mRNA vaccines are not considered live virus vaccines and are not thought to be a risk to a breastfeeding infant. If a lactating person is part of a group (e.g., healthcare personnel) who is recommended for COVID-19 vaccination, they may choose to be vaccinated.

ACOG recommends COVID-19 vaccines be offered to lactating individuals similarly to non-lactating individuals when they meet criteria for receipt of the vaccine based on prioritization groups outlined by ACIP. While lactating individuals were not included in most clinical trials, ACOG recommends that COVID-19 vaccines not be withheld from lactating individuals who otherwise meet criteria for vaccination.


Geriatric Use
Clinical studies of the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine included older participants, but they are grouped into a category of persons aged 55 years or more (that is, not everyone in this category was geriatric). Data from this group contributed to the overall assessment of safety and efficacy (see Key Literature above).

In subgroup analysis in persons aged 65-74, there was 1 case of COVID-19 out of 3,255 participants in the vaccinated group and 14 cases out of 3,255 in the placebo group, with a vaccine efficacy of 92.9 ( ninety five  percent CI 53.2-99.8). In people 75 years of age or older there were 0 cases out of 805 participants in the vaccinated group and 5 cases out of 812 participants in the placebo group, with a vaccine efficacy of 100  percent, although this was not statistically significant ( ninety five  percent CI -12.1-100). Due to the small numbers in these subgroups, the results should be interpreted with caution.

Resources to monitor initial supply distribution include

Interim ACIP Recommendation for Allocating Initial Vaccine Supplies
Guidance for federal, state, and local COVID-19 vaccination planning and implementation from CDC’s Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices.

State Plans for Vaccinating Populations Against COVID-19
Chart and map-based overview developed by the National Academy for State Health Policy.

 According to FDA guidance, individuals should not get the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine if they have:

Had a severe allergic reaction after a previous dose of this vaccine, or
Had a severe allergic reaction to any ingredient of the vaccine mRNA, Lipids ((4-hydroxybutyl)azanediyl)bis(hexane-6,1-diyl)bis(2-hexyldecanoate), 2 [(polyethylene glycol)-2000]-N,N-ditetradecylacetamide, 1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine, and cholesterol), Potassium chloride, Monobasic potassium phosphate, Sodium chloride, Dibasic sodium phosphate dihydrate, Sucrose.
Of note, an immediate allergic reaction to a vaccine or medication is defined as any hypersensitivity-related signs or symptoms such as urticaria, angioedema, respiratory distress (e.g., wheezing, stridor), or anaphylaxis that occur within four hours following administration.
CDC considers a history of the following to be a contraindication to vaccination with the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine:
Severe allergic reaction after a previous dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine or any of its components.
Immediate allergic reaction of any severity to a previous dose of an mRNA COVID-19 vaccine or any of its components (including polyethylene glycol [PEG])*.
Immediate allergic reaction of any severity to polysorbate (due to potential cross-reactive hypersensitivity with the vaccine ingredient PEG)*.
These persons should not receive mRNA COVID-19 vaccination at this time unless they have been evaluated by an allergist-immunologist and it is determined that the person can safely receive the vaccine (e.g., under observation, in a setting with advanced medical care available).
According to a December 19th CDC presentation, persons with a history of anaphylaxis to any other vaccine or injectable therapy can still receive the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, but should be counseled about the unknown risks of developing a severe allergic reaction.
The following persons do NOT have a contraindication or precaution to receiving the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine: persons who have a history of food, pet, insect, venom, environmental, or latex allergy; persons with an allergy to an oral medication; persons with a non-serious allergy to other vaccines or injectables; persons with a family history of anaphylaxis; persons with any other history of anaphylaxis unrelated to a vaccine or injectable.
Persons with no history of anaphylaxis should be monitored for 15 minutes after vaccination; persons with a history of anaphylaxis should be monitored for 30 minutes.
CDC has provided considerations after administration of mRNA vaccines in health care personnel with systemic signs and symptoms following COVID-19 vaccination, as well as interim clinical considerations on preparing for the initial assessment and management of anaphylaxis following COVID-19 vaccination.

Post-Market Safety Monitoring

The FDA Pfizer-BioNTech EUA includes specific instructions on continuous safety monitoring in accordance with its requirement that all EUA sponsors “plan for active follow-up for safety, including deaths, hospitalizations and other serious or clinically significant adverse events, among individuals who receive the vaccine under an EUA, to inform ongoing benefit-risk determinations to support continuation of the EUA.”

The federal government uses multiple vaccine safety monitoring systems to monitor COVID-19 vaccines in the post-authorization   or approval period, including the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System, the Vaccine Safety Datalink, the Biologics Effectiveness and Safety Initiative and Medicare claims data.

Safety and Immunogenicity of Two RNA-Based Covid-19 Vaccine Candidates (Walsh, December 2020). Placebo-controlled, observer-blinded, dose-escalation, phase 1 trial conducted in the United States to assess the safety and immunogenicity of three dose levels of BNT162b1 and BNT162b2. 1 ninety five healthy adults 18-55 years of age and those 65-85 years of age were randomly assigned to receive either placebo or BNT162b1 or BNT162b2. Trial groups were defined according to vaccine candidate, age of the participants, and vaccine dose level (10 μg, 20 μg, 30 μg, and 100 μg). BNT162b2 was associated with a lower incidence and severity of systemic reactions than BNT162b1, particularly in older adults. In both younger and older adults, the two vaccine candidates elicited similar dose-dependent SARS-CoV-2–neutralizing geometric mean titers, which were similar to or higher than the geometric mean titer of a panel of SARS-CoV-2 convalescent serum samples.

Phase I and II study of COVID-19 RNA vaccine BNT162b1 in adults (Mulligan, August 2020). Phase I   or II safety, tolerability and immunogenicity data from an ongoing placebo-controlled, observer-blinded dose-escalation study among 45 healthy adults (18–55 years of age), were randomized to receive 2 doses—separated by 21 days—of 10 μg, 30 μg or 100 μg of BNT162b1. Local reactions and systemic events were dose-dependent, generally mild to moderate, and transient, with pain at the injection site being the most frequent solicited local reaction. A second vaccination with 100 μg was not administered because of the increased reactogenicity and a lack of meaningfully increased immunogenicity after a single dose compared with the 30-μg dose.  Geometric mean neutralizing titres reached 1.9-4.6-fold that of a panel of COVID-19 convalescent human sera, which were obtained at least 14 days after a positive SARS-CoV-2 PCR.

The Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccination series consists of 2 intramuscular doses given 3 weeks apart.

Second doses administered within a grace period of ≤4 days from the recommended date for the second dose are considered valid; however, doses administered earlier do not need to be repeated. The second dose should be administered as close to the recommended interval as possible. However, there is no maximum interval between the first and second dose for either vaccine. 

The Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine is not interchangeable with other COVID-19 vaccines to complete the vaccination series. The safety and efficacy of a mixed-product series have not been evaluated. Both doses of the series should be completed with the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine. However, if two doses of different mRNA COVID-19 vaccine products are inadvertently administered, no additional doses of either product are recommended at this time.

Overall vaccine efficacy after one dose has not been studied. While there were patients in phase 3 trials who received one dose and vaccine efficacy was reported in these patients, the overall number of such patients was small and they were only followed for a short time period. The duration and degree of their immune responses to the single dose of the vaccine is not known; until such data is available and the efficacy of one dose has been studied, FDA recommends that all COVID-19 vaccine recipients receive two doses of vaccine.

The FDA EUA includes guidance on dose preparation (for illustrations, see pages 4-6):

Prior to Dilution

The Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 Vaccine Multiple Dose Vial contains a frozen suspension that does not contain preservative and must be thawed and diluted prior to administration, source - https://labeling.pfizer.com/ShowLabeling.aspx?id=14471.
Vials may be thawed in the refrigerator (2 C to 8 C [35 F to 46 F]) or at room temperature (up to 25 C [77 F]).
If thawed in a refrigerator, vials can be stored in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Vials thawed at room temperature must be used within 30 minutes.
Dilution

Dilute the vial contents using 1.8 mL of 0.9  percent sodium chloride injection, USP (not provided) to form the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine, source - https://labeling.pfizer.com/ShowLabeling.aspx?id=14471.
ONLY use 0.9  percent sodium chloride injection, USP as the diluent. This diluent is not packaged with the vaccine and must be sourced separately.
Do not use bacteriostatic 0.9  percent sodium chloride injection or any other diluent.
Once diluted, the vials must be used within 6 hours.
Administration

Visually inspect each dose in the dosing syringe prior to administration. The vaccine will be an off-white suspension, source - https://labeling.pfizer.com/ShowLabeling.aspx?id=14471.
During the visual inspection:
Verify the final dosing volume of 0.3 mL;
Confirm there are no particulates and that no discoloration is observed;
Do not administer if vaccine is discolored or contains particulate matter.
Administer the Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine intramuscularly.

BNT162b2 is an mRNA vaccine that is given in 2 doses, 21 days apart, source - https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/vaccines/different-vaccines/Pfizer-BioNTech.html.
In a Phase 2   or 3 multinational randomized placebo-controlled efficacy clinical trial, 43,538 participants over 16 years of age from 152 sites worldwide who were either healthy or had stable chronic medical conditions underwent 1:1 randomization.
43,448 received injections.
21,720 received 2 doses of BNT162b2, and 21,728 received a saline placebo.
Patients with prior known COVID-19, on immunosuppressive therapy, who had an immunocompromising condition, or who were pregnant were excluded. People with well-controlled HIV infection were included.
This publication is an interim analysis of the trial; additional publications with longer time to follow up and examining safety in specific groups are forthcoming.
3  percent of participants had serologic evidence of prior COVID-19 at the time of enrollment (but would have had asymptomatic disease, per enrollment exclusion criteria).
Primary endpoints:

Primary efficacy endpoints: The efficacy of BNT162b2 against confirmed COVID-19 with onset at least 7 days after the second dose in participants who had been without serologic or virologic evidence of SARS-CoV-2 infection up to 7 days after the second dose; efficacy in participants with and participants without evidence of prior infection, source - https://www.idsociety.org/covid-19-real-time-learning-network/vaccines/Pfizer-BioNTech-COVID-19-Vaccine/.
Confirmed COVID-19 was defined as having a positive RT-PCR respiratory specimen for SARS-CoV-2 AND at least one of the following: fever, new or increased cough, new or increased shortness of breath, chills, new or increased muscle pain, new loss of taste or smell, sore throat, diarrhea, or vomiting.
Primary safety endpoints: Solicited local or systemic adverse events and use of an antipyretic or pain medication within 7 days of receiving either the vaccine or placebo via an electronic diary in a “reactogenicity” subset of patients; unsolicited adverse events reported through 1 month after the second dose of vaccine; unsolicited adverse events through 6 months after the second dose.
196 people living with HIV were included in the trial, but their safety data is being analyzed separately and has not yet been reported.
2-month follow-up data was available for 37,706 participants; in the reactogenicity subset, data was available for 8,183 participants.
Key Findings:

Efficacy is stated to be
as of the writing of the report, 36,523 participants with no serologic or virologic evidence of existing or prior SARS-CoV-2 infection could be evaluated for efficacy at least 7 days after the second dose, source - https://www.idsociety.org/covid-19-real-time-learning-network/vaccines/Pfizer-BioNTech-COVID-19-Vaccine/. 
As of the writing of the report, 40,137 participants with and without prior infection could be evaluated at least 7 days after the second dose.
At the time of analysis, 3,614 participants had serologic evidence of COVID-19.
Per information shared with the FDA, 1,747 people in the vaccinated group had positive serology for SARS-CoV-2, compared to 1,847 in the placebo group.
In the 37,706 participants who had a median of at least 2 months of safety data available after the second dose:  
The median age was 52 years, and 42  percent of participants were older than 55 years.  
83  percent were white, 9  percent were Black or African American, and 28  percent were Hispanic or Latinx.  
35  percent were obese (BMI>= 30.0 kg   or m2), and 21  percent had at least one coexisting condition.  
Among 36,523 participants who had no serologic or virologic evidence of existing or prior SARS-CoV-2 infection, there were 8 cases of COVID-19 with onset at least 7 days after receiving the second dose of BNT162b2, and 162 cases with onset at least 7 days after receiving the second dose of placebo.
BNT162b2 was  ninety five  percent effective in preventing COVID-19 disease ( ninety five  percent CI, 90.3-97.6).  
Similar vaccine efficacy (generally 90 to 100  percent) was observed across subgroups defined by age, sex, race, ethnicity, baseline body-mass index, and the presence of coexisting conditions.  
Among the 40,137 participants with and without evidence of prior infection, 9 cases occurred with onset at least 7 days after receiving the second dose of BNT162b2, and 169 cases occurred with onset at least 7 days after receiving the second dose of placebo.  
BNT162b2 was 94.6  percent effective in preventing COVID-19 disease in this group ( ninety five  percent CI 89.9-97.3). 
Of the 3,614 participants who had serologic evidence of COVID-19 at the time of analysis, there were 9 cases of COVID-19 disease in the placebo group and 10 in the vaccinated group.
When examining rates of disease after the first dose of vaccine and before the second, there were 39 cases in the vaccinated group and 82 in the placebo group, resulting in a 52.4  percent efficacy rate after one dose ( ninety five  percent CI: 29.5-68.4).
Safety

The safety analysis included all participants who had received at least one dose of the vaccine or placebo, source - https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(21)00234-8/fulltext.
In the reactogenicity subset, among those aged 16-55 years:
Approximately 93  percent of those who received BNT162b2 had mild-to-moderate pain, redness or swelling at the infection site after dose 1 and 88  percent experienced these symptoms after dose 2. Approximately 15  percent of these events occurred in the placebo group after dose 1 and 13  percent after dose 2, source - https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(21)00234-8/fulltext.
In the reactogenicity subset, among those aged 55 years or more:
Approximately 82  percent of those who received BNT162b2 had mild-to-moderate pain, redness or swelling at the infection site after dose 1; 79  percent experienced these symptoms after dose 2. Approximately 11  percent of these events occurred in the placebo group after dose 1 and 9  percent after dose 2, source - https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(21)00234-8/fulltext. 
In vaccine recipients, the most commonly reported systemic events were fatigue and headache (59  percent after the first dose and 52  percent after the second dose among younger vaccine recipients; 51  percent after the first dose and 39  percent after the second dose among older recipients).
Fatigue and headache were also reported by many placebo recipients (23  percent after the first dose and 24  percent after the second dose among younger vaccine recipients; 17  percent after the first dose and 14  percent after the second dose among older recipients). 
Fever was reported after the second dose by 16  percent of younger vaccine recipients, and by 11  percent of older recipients. 
The incidence of serious adverse events was similar in the vaccine and placebo groups (0.6  percent and 0.5  percent, respectively). 
Among the 21,621 people in the trial who received BNT162b2, four related serious adverse events were reported: shoulder injury related to vaccine administration, right axillary lymphadenopathy, paroxysmal ventricular arrhythmia and right leg paresthesia.  
Four participants in the clinical trial who received the vaccine later developed Bell’s palsy. These cases occurred at 3, 9, 37, and 48 days after vaccination. The observed frequency of reported Bell’s palsy in the vaccine group is consistent with the expected background rate in the general population, according to the FDA.
No deaths were considered by the investigators to be related to the vaccine or placebo, source - https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(21)00234-8/fulltext.   

Limitations are

The report includes 2 months of follow up after the second dose of the vaccine for only half of the trial participants.  
Due to the high efficacy found in the trial, the original plan of following placebo recipients for 2 years will not be followed due to ethical concerns. Therefore, there will be no placebo group with which to assess long-term efficacy and safety.  
The primary efficacy endpoint was clinical disease; asymptomatic infection was not assessed, although additional data utilizing a serologic endpoint is being collected.
The trial did not include children, immunocompromised people or pregnant women, but trials are being developed to assess BNT162b2 in these groups. 
While there was a small group of people with evidence of prior COVID-19 infection at the time of analysis, the number of cases in this group was too small to draw any conclusions about the efficacy of the vaccine in individuals with prior infection; this may change as the trial continues.
Serial RT-PCR testing was not performed, and so the efficacy of the vaccine in potentially preventing spread of SARS-CoV-2 could not be determined.
Overall, in this interim analysis of a Phase 2   or 3 randomized placebo-controlled efficacy trial, BNT162b2 was effective at preventing symptomatic COVID-19 disease and was safe at a median time to follow up of 2 months, source - https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(21)00234-8/fulltext.

Wuhan Novel Coronavirus outbreak has become global pandemic which has raised the concern of scientific community to deign and discover a definitive cure against this deadly virus which has caused deaths of numerous infected people upon infection and spreading. To date, there is no antiviral therapy or vaccine is available which can effectively combat the infection caused by this virus. This study was conducted to design possible epitope-based subunit vaccines against the 2019-nCoV using the approaches of reverse vaccinology and immunoinformatics. Upon continual computational experimentation three possible vaccine constructs were designed and one vaccine construct was selected as the best vaccine based on molecular docking study which is supposed to effectively act against the Wuhan Novel Coronavirus. Later, molecular dynamics simulation and in silico codon adaptation experiments were carried out in order to check biological stability and find effective mass production strategy of the selected vaccine. Hopefully, this study will contribute to uphold the present efforts of the researches to secure a definitive treatment against this nasty virus, source - https://www.channelnewsasia.com/news/singapore/covid-19-threat-could-erode-with-time-just-as-with-h1n1-say-12438600.

Origin of Coronavirus, Their Morphology, Pathology and Others
Coronaviruses (CoVs), is enveloped positive-sense RNA viruses, which is surrounded by crown-shaped, club-like spikes projection on the outer surface [1][2]. Coronaviruses spike protein are glycoprotein that are embedded over the viral envelope. This spike protein attaches to specific cellular receptors and initiates structural changes of spike protein, and causes penetration of cell membranes which results in the release of the viral nucleocapsid into the cell. The viral spike protein includes N-terminal, which is crucial for identification of Coronaviruses [4]. Coronaviruses have a large RNA genome in the size ranging from 26 to 32 kilobases and capable of obtaining distinct ways of replication [5]. Like all other RNA viruses, coronavirus under goes replication of genome and transcription of mRNAs upon infection. Synthesis of a full-length negative-strand RNA serves as template for full-length genomic RNA [3][6]. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses belonging to the family Coronaviridae and the order Nidovirales [7]. that are common in many different species of animals, including camels, cattle, cats, and bats [8], This group of viruses can cause wide varieties of respiratory illness in mammals and birds. In human, it causes common cold, leading to severe illness pneumonia to elderly people and immunocompromised people, like hospital patients [9]. This viral pathogen was responsible for the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) and Severe Acute Respiratory (SARS), and 2019 Novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) in China outbreaks [10]. Coronavirus in form of SARS, MERS and Novel coronavirus are lethal leading to large number of deaths. Coronavirus subfamily is classified into four genera, the alpha, beta, gamma and delta coronaviruses. Human CoV infections are caused by alpha- and beta-CoVs. CoVs are common human pathogens, and 30% to 60% of the Chinese population is positive for anti-CoV antibodies [11]. These viral infections caused by coronaviruses are generally associated the upper respiratory tract to lower respiratory tract. Immunocompromised people like elderly people and infants are more vulnerable and susceptible to this group of viruses, source - https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.02.05.935072v1.full.pdf.

For many decades HCoVs are well adapted to humans and it had been prevalent among Human races. In 1960s, first identification of Human coronaviruses (HCoVs) was made in patients with common cold. Following that incident more HCoVs has been detected, that involved the two major outbreak SARS and MERS, two pathogens that, upon infection, can cause fatal respiratory disease in humans [13].

The most common coronaviruses among humans are 229E, NL63, OC43, and HKU1 and some can evolve and cause human diseases, becoming new human coronaviruses. Three recent examples of these are 2019-nCoV, SARS-CoV, and MERS-CoV [14]. SARS-CoV was the causal agent of the severe acute respiratory syndrome outbreaks in 2002 and 2003 in Guangdong Province, China. 6-8 MERS-CoV was the pathogen responsible for severe respiratory disease outbreaks in 2012 in the Middle East, https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.02.05.935072v1.full.pdf.

Chinese scientists were able to sequence the viral genome using next genome sequencing from the collected samples and identified the cause as a Sars-like coronavirus. The genetic sequence is now available for scientist all around the world which would aid faster diagnosis of further cases [2] [16][17]. Based on full genome sequence data on the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data [GISAID] platform, the genetic sequence of the 2019 novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) ensuring faster development of point-of-care real-time RT-PCR diagnostic tests specific for 2019-nCoV [18]. Association of genome sequence with other evidences demonstrated that 2019 nCoV is 75 to 80% identical to the SARS-CoV and even more closely related to several bat coronaviruses. 2019-nCoV can be cultured in the same cells that are ideal for growing SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, unlike SARS-CoV or MERS-CoV, 2019-nCoV grows better in primary human airway epithelial cells than in standard tissue-culture cells [19]. Another group of scientists have investigated the origin of the 2019-nCoV, using comprehensive sequence analysis and comparison in conjunction with relative synonymous codon usage (RSCU) within different animal species and sequences of newly identified coronavirus 2019-nCoV. The evidence and analysis suggest that the 2019-nCoV appears to be a recombinant virus between the bat coronavirus and an origin-unknown coronavirus. the viral spike glycoprotein recombined within themselves, and recognizes cell surface receptor. Scientist are speculating that the 2019-nCoV originated form snakes based on Homologous recombination within the spike glycoprotein could be a probable way of transmission in between snake and humans, source - https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.02.05.935072v1.full.pdf

China is in its extremity due to the outbreak of a respiratory virus, called coronavirus and considered as related to SARS virus [21][22]. It is reported to be originated in the animal and seafood market of Wuhan, Hubei province, China – one of the largest cities in China which has 11M residents thus entitled as Wuhan coronavirus or more commonly 2019-nCoV. [21] [23] World health organization (WHO) is investigating the virus since 31st December, 2019 after being reported. [24][25] 2019-nCOV is a deadly virus and Chinese authority reported WHO a pneumonia like case on 31st December, 2019 and the infection has spread destructively since then [26]. First death of a 61 years old man was reported on 11th January by Chinese health authorities in Wuhan, Hubei province, China [25][27][28]. Second death of a 69 years old man was reported on 15th January in the central city of Wuhan, Hubei province, China who had symptoms of pneumonia [29][30]. In Thailand, first emerging international case outside the China was reported on 13th January and the first emerging case outside the Wuhan city, China was reported on 19th January [25][31]. On January 20, it was reported that 2019-nCOV virus can be transmitted from human to human which cracked the idea that it can only be transmitted through infected animals [32]-[35] and on the same day China Health authority reported the third death [36]. It was recorded that the number of infections rose upto 10 fold between 17th-20th January [37]. United States confirmed first infected case in Washington state on 21st January who had recently been returned from china [38]. As of 23rd January China reported 830 infected cases and the death toll rose upto 25 in China [39][40]. On the same date several confirmed infected cases were reported worldwide, Taiwan (1 case), Macao(2 cases), Hong Kong(2cases),Vietnam (2cases), Thailand (3cases), Japan (2cases), South Korea(2 cases),Singapore (1case), United States (1case) [41]. On 24 January the health minister of France Agnes Buzyn announced three confirmed infected cases, two in Paris and 1 case in Bordeaux. France is the first European country to be announced as infected [42]-[44]. Chinese authority banned public and air transport in Wuhan on 23 January and the residents of the country were kept under quarantine [45]. National Health Commission of China reported on 25th January that as of 24th January the virus took 41 lives and 1300 infected cases were reported worldwide [46]-[48]. As of January 25, China confirmed 2000 infected cases worldwide, among these 1975 cases were reported in China with rising death toll to 56 [49]-[51]. Chinese health authority announced on January 27 that the coronavirus death toll jumped to 81 and 2744 infected cases in china were reported [52]-[54]. German authorities confirmed first infected case of coronavirus and it is reported as second European country to be infected. The health authority said that the patient is in the good condition and is kept under medical observation [55][56]. Health and Human Services Secretary of U.S. said on 28th January that the infected cases in U.S. remained five with no deaths, while France reported forth infected case. In china 106 deaths with more than 4520 infected cases were reported on 28th January [57][58]. Alarming situation due to rising confirmed cases outside China made governments of other countries to start evacuation of their citizens from Wuhan, China and these include U.S., France, Japan, Australia, Germany, New Zealand, France [59]. Approximately, 170 deaths and 7,711 confirmed cases were reported with 1,737 new cases by Chinese National health commission on 29th January [60]. The U.S. government evacuated 240 Americans, mostly diplomats and their family members from the epicenter of the virus outbreak on 29th January by a chartered airplane [61]. Another report stated that on the same day chartered ANA airplane by Japanese government landed in Heneda Airport after evacuating 206 Japanese nationals [62]. The World Health Organization (WHO) had a meeting at the WHO headquarter in Geneva on 30th January and WHO declared the outbreak as Public Health Emergency and it is also said by the committee that the declaration was made giving priority the other countries outside China [63]. On 30th January the U.S. state department advised their citizens not to travel to China as the death toll jumped to 204 with 9,692 infected cases worldwide [64]. In China 213 deaths and globally 9,826 confirmed cases were reported on 31st January by Chinese national health authorities, among which 9,720 cases in China and 106 cases in 19 countries outside China [65][66]. On 1st February the death toll reached to 258 with 11,948 confirmed cases worldwide stated by Hubei Provincial Health Commission [67][68]. On the same day German Ministry of Health said that a military airplane landed at Frankfurt airport after evacuating 128 German citizens from Wuhan who will be quarantined till mid of February and the health minister also stated that Germany military aircraft delivered aid and 1000 protective suits to Chinese authorities requested by China [69]. First known fatality outside China reported of a 44 year old man in Philippines by Philippine health officials on 2nd February as the novel coronavirus outbreak took 362 lives and 17,205 cases were reported according to Chinese and World Health Organization data [70][71].The Nation’s flagship carrier, Qantas, was chartered by Australian government and the airplane landed in Learmonth, Western Australia after evacuating 243 citizens including 89 children on 3rd February from where the citizens would be sent by another flight to Christmas Island to be quarantined [72]. New 1000-bed facility Huoshenshan Hospital in Wuhan is built in only 10 days to mitigate the pressure of patients in other medical hospitals in Wuhan. A crew of more than 7000 workers started working around the clock on 24 January which covers 60000 square meters with special quarantine area and opened its door to receive patients on 3rd February [73][74]. Kerala government announced the third confirmed case in India on 3rd February who is a student [75] just like the 1st case (reported on 30th January in Kerala) and 2nd case (reported on 2nd February in Kerala) according to the Ministry of Health and Family welfare of India [76][77]. A British pharmaceutical company, GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) stated on 3rd February that they would like to collaborate with Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) that works for developing vaccines. GSK said that they are ready to work with their adjuvant technology to increase immunity to the patients as well as to develop vaccine for coronavirus outbreak Health authorities in China stated on 4th February that as end of 3rd February the coronavirus fatalities jumped to 425 in China and 427 worldwide as the second fatality announced in Hong Kong of a 39 year old man reported on same day in the early morning [75][78]. The authority also said that the confirmed cases reached to 20,438 worldwide, https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.02.05.935072v1.full.pdf.

To date, there is no effective antiviral therapies that can combat the Coronavirus infections and hence the treatments are only supportive. Use of Interferons in combination with Ribavirin is somewhat effective. However, the effectiveness of combined remedy needs to be further evaluated [81].

This experiment is carried out to design novel epitope-based vaccine against four proteins of Wuhan novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV) i.e., nucleocapsid phosphoprotein which is responsible for genome packaging and viral assembly [82]; surface glycoprotein that is responsible for membrane fusion event during viral entry [83][84]; ORF3a protein that is responsible for viral replication, characterized virulence, viral spreading and infection [85] and membrane glycoprotein which mediates the interaction of virions with cell receptors [86] using the approaches of reverse vaccinology, source - https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.02.05.935072v1.full.

Reverse vaccinology refers to the process of developing vaccines where the novel antigens of a virus or microorganism or organism are detected by analyzing the genomic and genetic information of that particular virus or organism. In reverse vaccinology, the tools of bioinformatics are used for identifying and analyzing these novel antigens. These tools are used to dissect the genome and genetic makeup of a pathogen for developing a potential vaccine. Reverse vaccinology approach of vaccine development also allows the scientists to easily understand the antigenic segments of a virus or pathogen that should be given more emphasis during the vaccine development. This method is a quick, cheap, efficient, easy and cost-effective way to design vaccine. Reverse vaccinology has successfully been used for developing vaccines to fight against many viruses i.e., the Zika virus, Chikungunya virus etc, source - https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/nursing-and-health-professions/reverse-vaccinology.

Antigenicity Prediction and Physicochemical Property Analysis of the Protein Sequences
The antigenicity of protein sequences was determined using an online tool called VaxiJen v2.0. During the antigenicity prediction, the threshold was set at 0.4 in the tumor model. Only the protein sequences that were found to be highly antigenic, were selected for further analysis. Next, the selected antigenic protein sequences were analyzed by ExPASy’s online tool and ProtParam (https:   or    or web.expasy.org   or protparam   or ) to determine their physicochemical properties [92]. Different physicochemical properties i.e., the number of amino acids, molecular weight, theoretical pI, extinction co-efficient, estimated half-life, aliphatic index and grand average of hydropathicity (GRAVY) were then determined.

The online epitope prediction server Immune Epitope Database or IEDB was used for T-cell and B-cell epitope prediction. The database contains a huge collection of experimental data on T-cell epitopes and antibodies. These experimental data are collected from various experiments that are conducted on human, non-human primates and other animals [93]. The NetMHCpan EL 4.0 prediction method was used for MHC class-I restricted CD8+ cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) epitope prediction for HLA-A*11-01 allele and the MHC class-II restricted CD4+ helper T-lymphocyte (HTL) epitopes were predicted for HLA DRB1*04-01 allele, using the Sturniolo prediction method. Ten of the top twenty MHC class-I and MHC class-II epitopes were randomly selected based on their antigenicity scores (AS) and percentile scores. For, the B-cell lymphocytic epitopes (BCL), with amino acid number of more than ten, were selected and predicted using Bipipered linear epitope prediction method.

 Transmembrane Topology and Antigenicity Prediction of the Selected Epitopes
The epitopes selected in the previous step were then used in the transmembrane topology experiment using the transmembrane topology of protein helices determinant, TMHMM v2.0 server. The antigenicity of the epitopes were determined again by the online VaxiJen v2.0 (http:   or    or www.ddg-pharmfac.net   or vaxijen   or VaxiJen   or VaxiJen.htm) server and the threshold for the tumor model was kept at 0.4 for this time also

 Allergenicity and Toxicity Prediction of the Epitopes
The allergenicity of the selected epitopes were predicted using two online tools i.e., AllerTOP v2.0 as well as AllergenFP v1.0. During the selection after the allergenicity prediction, the results predicted by the AllerTOP server were given more priority because the server has better accuracy (88.7 percent) than AllergenFP server of 87.9% [ ninety five][96]. The toxicity prediction of the selected epitopes was carried out using ToxinPred server (http:   or    or crdd.osdd.net   or raghava   or toxinpred   or ) using SVM (support vector method) based method, keeping all the parameters default. After the antigenicity, allergenicity and toxicity tests, the epitopes that were found to be antigenic, non-allergenic and non-toxic, were considered as the best possible epitopes and the sequences that were found to be highly antigenic as well as non-allergenic, were considered as B-cell epitopes and as a result used in the next phases of this experiment.

Myth is commonly considered as a folklore genre consisting of narratives or stories that play a fundamental role in human beings' everyday lives. These are often endorsed by leaders   or rulers   or religious preachers and explain to a great extent the functioning of a society and shape the beliefs of people. There is a potential role of cultural and religious beliefs   or traditions   or customs   or rituals, which add a flavor to the public's mindset in a particular region   or country and influence the propagation or acceptance of a myth (Morales, 2013). Myths related to various infections have been prevalent from time to time, and it takes a long battle to demystify the existing myths by providing a realistic evidence-based approach. In recent times, some of the common infections, which are have been associated with myths, include Leprosy, Tuberculosis, and Flu (CDC, 2018; Haldimand-Norfolk Health and Social Sciences, 2018; World Health Organisation, 2019). In recent times, the World is facing COVID-19 infection, which has created havoc in the entire World and has affected all aspects of human lives. With the exponential rise in the number of confirmed cases and deaths per day across the World, the health care system has been affected the most. With no potential medication or vaccine developed (to date) against the virus, it is expected that the morbidity and mortality associated with COVID-19 infection is going to increase in the near future.

Despite creating awareness and providing adequate information to the general public through telecommunication (radio, television advertisements, public health messages by prominent celebrities and national leaders) and distributing pamphlets or signboards at public places about infection control measures and mode of spread of the infection, still, there are a large number of myths associated with the spread and cure   or treatment of COVID-19 infection in the society. These myths are traveling from one person to the other, through social media platforms. These myths can be very dangerous, as these can lead to over- complacency and lead to a reduction in actually needed practices, or following some of these myths can lead to other health hazards. In this regard, the various health authorities [World Health Organization (WHO), Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, India etc.] have listed some of the prevailing myths to increase awareness about the infection and have provided factual information about COVID-19 in their websites (Boston, 2020; CDC, 2020; Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 2020; Myth busters n.d., 2020). Additionally, some of the claims made by other ‘pathies’ in terms of improvement or boosting of immunity against COVID-19 infection, are being challenged (Boston, 2020; Ministry of AYUSH, 2020). All these had led to further confusion in the mind of the common man.

While the healthcare systems are unable to find a solution or cure to the COVID-19 infection, various facts have emerged, which have low validity and are gradually turning into potential myths related to COVID-19 (Boston, 2020; Carbone et al., 2020; Myth busters n.d., 2020). We need to understand that, when we consider something as useful or efficacious in managing or preventing a health condition, the intervention, should undergo a well-designed, adequately powered double-blind randomized controlled trial (DB-RCT). Further, as per the levels of evidence even a cohort or case-control study or any degree of evidence based on case series   or case reports or expert opinions can be considered to be a trial to render an intervention to be propagated as justifiable or for the need to be tested (Burns et al., 2011; “CEBM- The Centre for Evidence Based Medicine,” 2020; Sackett, 1989). Till the time any intervention has been unequivocally proved to be efficacious by any of the above-mentioned types of studies, the same should not be claimed as efficacious. In this background, if we look at the various claims made for improving the immunity and resultant prevention of COVID-19, many of these have not been subjected to the rigorous evaluation. Hence, all such claims can be questioned. However, if these are propagated as efficacious or useful, these will also boarder on to be labeled as myths.

Currently, prevailing myths related to COVID-19 infection can be categorized into those related to the spread of infection, source of spread of infection, preventive measures, and cure.

Eating garlic, turmeric, and   or or lemon (and other foods commonly used as home remedies for flu and the common cold) can help prevent Covid-19 infection.	Garlic and turmeric have antimicrobial properties, source - https://www.hsph.harvard.edu/india-center/myths-vs-facts.
Vitamin C is an essential vitamin that can support immune function.	No evidence in the form of a DB RCT from the current outbreak that garlic or lemon (or vitamin c rich foods) can protect someone from getting COVID-19 infection	Most of the Indians use garlic, turmeric, and lemon in their daily foods. No additional benefit is ensured if taken in excess amounts. The government and Ayush advisory mention these to be useful to improve immunity, not as preventive strategies, source - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7301136/.
	Regularly rinsing with salt water or saline can help prevent COVID-19 infection.	The virus dies in salty water.	No evidence that regularly gargling has protected people from COVID-19 infection.	While this strategy may help soothe a sore throat due to any flu-like infection, however, this practice will not prevent anybody from developing COVID-19 infection if exposed to the same, source - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7301136/.
	Drinking warm water and getting enough sunlight are effective in preventing COVID-19.	Heat or warm fluids kill the virus.	No evidence that the nCoV-SARS virus can be killed at higher temperatures.	Drinking warm water and getting enough sunlight may have other health benefits. Sunlight is good to get Vitamin D, which has a role in modulating the innate and adaptive immune responses. But too much exposure to sunlight may also lead to sunburn, source - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7301136/.
	Taking a hot bath can prevent COVID-19 disease.	Heat kills the virus.	Taking a hot bath will not prevent you from contracting COVID-19.	Taking a hot bath with extremely hot water can be harmful, as it can cause burns to the body, source - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7301136/.
	The COVID-19 infection cannot be transmitted in areas with hot and humid climates.	Heat kills the virus.	The COVID-19 virus can be transmitted in all areas, including areas with hot and humid weather.	Only infection control measures and adequate hand hygiene can prevent the infection, source - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7301136/
	Hand dryers are effective in killing the novel coronavirus.	Heat kills the virus	No evidence	Only infection control measures and adequate hand hygiene can prevent the infection, source - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7301136/
	Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body can kill the COVID-19 virus.	Since alcohol is used in sanitizers and chlorine is used in hypochlorite solutions, it can be used to kill the virus from the body by applying it all over.	Spraying alcohol or chlorine all over your body will not kill viruses that have already entered the body.	Spraying such substances can be harmful to clothes or mucous membranes (i.e., eyes, mouth). Both are used to disinfect surfaces, but they need to be used in appropriate proportion   or quantities under appropriate recommendations, source - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7301136/
	Sniffing   or inhaling alcohol can protect from developing the COVID-19 infection.	Alcohol can kill any virus which has entered the respiratory tract.		No evidence for the protective effect of alcohol inhalation against COVID-19 infection
	Vaccines against pneumonia can protect you against the COVID-19 infection.		Vaccines against pneumonia, such as pneumococcal vaccine and Haemophilus influenza Type B vaccine, do not protect against the novel coronavirus.	Researchers across the world are trying to develop a vaccine against COVID-19, source - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7301136/.
	Wearing a mask or N ninety five mask can only prevent the transmission of COVID-19.	Masks protect from inhaling the virus-laden air	There is evidence that masks can prevent an asymptomatic patient of COVID-19 from spreading the virus.	Only masks won’t help, but proper and adequate infection control measures, social distancing, appropriate use of masks, and hand hygiene is the best possible solution to prevent getting infected, source - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7301136/.
	Drinking alcohol can cure COVID-19.	Alcohol is present in alcohol sanitizers which kills the virus, therefore consuming alcohol can cure   or prevent getting the infection.	No evidence to suggest that alcohol intake can protect from getting infected. In fact, alcohol use and subsequent intoxication can affect the social distancing norms, impair hand hygiene, and other infection control measures, and pose an imminent risk of contracting the infection.	Alcohol intake should be reduced or avoided to follow the infection control measures and social distancing, source - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7301136/
	Using cow dung and cow’s urine can cure the virus.	Cow's urine is the most sacred thing on Earth, and it can purify one's body from all types of infection.	No evidence	No evidence to suggest that of cow's urine in the treatment or prevention of COVID-19, source - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7301136/.
	Religious chants can protect from the virus   or  Clapping hands creates vibrations that destroy the coronavirus	Clapping hands creates sound waves, and the sound produced is sensed through the vibrations of our eardrums, which then creates oscillations in the fluid in our inner ear and increases our ability to fight with the virus.	No evidence regarding this. The vibration created by chanting would not even be sensed by something as small as a virus.	Chanting and religious discourses with clapping hands can be an effective coping skill to combat stress and anxiety related to COVID-19. It boosts up the mood and calms the mind, source - https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7301136/.


COVID-19 Infection Translmission
The new coronavirus can be transmitted through mosquito bite.	No evidence that mosquitoes can transmit the COVID-19 infection.	No need to worry about the relationship between mosquito bites and developing the COVID-19 infection, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC7301136.
Pets at home can spread the COVID-19 virus.	Animals spread the COVID-19 as it was detected in the China meat market.	At present, there is no evidence that pets can transmit the COVID-19 infection.	No need to worry about the disease being transmitted by pets, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113
Non-vegetarian food (meat   or eggs   or fish   or chicken) consumption can lead to infection	Meat consumption had spread the COVID-19 as it was detected in the China meat market.	No evidence to suggest that that the COVID-19 can be transmitted by eating properly cooked non-vegetarian foods	No need to worry. People can safely consume all types of properly cooked non-vegetarian products, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113
Donating blood can result in acquiring COVID-19 infection.	Donating blood can reduce the immune system, and one gets more vulnerable to contract the infection.	No evidence that COVID-19 can be transmitted by blood donation	COVID-19 period should not be a barrier to blood donation. Any healthy person can donate blood.
	You would be at risk if someone infected in housing complex   or neighborhood	The virus spreads in the entire air, and all around the infected person can be infected.	The real fact is that one cannot get infected if he   or she maintains a two-meter distance from the infected patient, wears a mask, and avoids touching contaminated things. Practicing adequate hand hygiene and infection control measures can prevent from getting infected.	The public should be empathetic towards the patients with COVID-19 or people suspected of having COVID-19 and under home isolation   or  quarantine. Maintaining adequate distance and infection control measures can help them in reducing the risk of getting infected, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113.
	Ordering or buying products shipped from overseas will make a person sick.	Fomite transmission	As per the WHO, the likelihood of becoming infected with COVID-19 from a commercial package is low since it has likely traveled over several days and had been exposed to different temperatures and conditions during transit.	The potential risk of getting infected from overseas products is minimal    or negligible, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113.
	Newspapers, milk packets, and vegetables can transmit the infection.	Virus remains on newspapers and milk packets for a long time	No evidence of newspapers being potential carriers of COVID-19 had been proved. There is no risk of contracting the illness through newspapers or any packages, and no current data   or research suggests that the virus can survive on paper for long hours. Following the hand hygiene measures, while touching the milk packet, may be sufficient to avoid the development of COVID-19 infection.	No need to panic and avoid buying newspapers   or milk products   or vegetables. Practice hand hygiene measures to prevent from getting infected, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113.
	COVID-19 infection can be transmitted from the mother to the child   or fetus during the process of birth   or delivery or pregnancy	Pregnant females are at the highest risk of transmitting the infection to baby   or fetus during pregnancy or during childbirth.	To date, there is no data (as per WHO), to the effect that a pregnant female with COVID-19 can pass the virus to her fetus or baby during pregnancy or process of childbirth. The active virus has not yet been found in samples of amniotic fluid.	The public needs to be reassured that pregnancy and childbirth are safe, and the same precautions are to be taken by pregnant women as the general population, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113.
	Pregnant women with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 need to give birth by cesarean section (CS) only.	Virus can spread through normal vaginal delivery.	The WHO clearly advises that CS should only be performed when medically indicated   or  justified. The mode of birth should be individualized and based on a woman's preferences alongside obstetric indications.	CS should not be asked unless indicated by the treating obstetrician.
	If pregnancy occurs, there is a high risk of miscarriage, abortion, or congenital malformations due to COVID-19.	Pregnancy is risky during COVID times.	There is currently no evidence to support that acquiring COVID-19 predisposes to a heightened risk of miscarriage. There is also no reported evidence to suggest that the virus will cause any problem with fetal development. Although some reports of preterm delivery and neonatal pneumonia have been reported, however currently the adverse pregnancy outcomes in few reports cannot be attributed to COVID-19 only.	No need to worry if one gets pregnant during COVID-19 pandemic, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113.
	COVID-19 infection can be transmitted through breast milk to the newborn   or breastfeeding.	Breast milk can carry the virus to the baby.	Till date (as per WHO), the virus has not been detected in the breast milk of any mother with confirmed or suspected COVID-19 infection. Researchers are continuing to test breast milk from COVID-19 mothers.	It is very unlikely that breastfeeding can spread the virus. Breast milk in all settings improves survival and provides lifelong advantages to newborns. Following delivery, the WHO recommends that the baby needs to be provided with skin-to-skin care, including kangaroo care with adequate respiratory hygiene and hand hygiene measures and breastfeeding the baby, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113.
	All health care workers (HCWs) are a potential source of COVID-19 infection.	HCWs are exposed to patients with COVID-19 infection.	HCWs are regarded as the front line warriors for tackling with COVID-19 infection. They are well-equipped with personal protective equipments (PPEs), which protect them against contracting COVID-19 infection.	There is an urgent need to create awareness in the general public that HCWs take all safety measures to protect themselves from getting infected, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113.
There is no need to worry or to panic when they come near any HCWs.
	Someone without symptoms cannot spread the infection.	Respiratory symptoms are mandatory to be present to spread the virus.	About 90 % of the patients with confirmed COVID -19 infection are asymptomatic and hence are potential carriers of virus.	Most of the patients are asymptomatic and can spread the disease, so adequate social distancing and hand hygiene measures to be taken when dealing with a suspected COVID-19 person, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113.
	All those who been quarantined because of travel history had developed the COVID-19 infection.	Foreigners or Indians who had recently returned from abroad had spread the COVID-19 infection.	The COVID-19 infection gradually spread across the World since its outbreak in China to almost all countries. However, it is not true that anyone who has a positive travel history to abroad is harboring COVID-19 infection.	Quarantine means under observation. Therefore, those who had returned from abroad are kept under quarantine to check for any development of symptoms to detect for COVID-19. This does not mean that they are already infected with COVID-19, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113.
	Someone who has recovered from COVID-19 infection can still spread the infection.	Once a COVID-19 patient always a patient, i.e., a patient carries the virus even if recovered.	Once recovered or tested negative as per WHO (RT-PCR) viral testing, the person is declared recovered i.e., he   or she is immune to the infection and has developed immunity or antibodies against the COVID-19 and therefore, they are absolutely safe, and they cannot transmit the infection.	The public should be made aware that those recovered do not carry the virus potential for infection and must be accepted back in the community with due respect, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113.
	Unprotected sexual intercourse can lead to spreading of COVID-19 infection.	Sexual intercourse can spread the virus.	Unprotected sexual intercourse with a steady partner with no contact history who is not known to be infected with COVID-19 poses no risk of transmission of COVID-19. To date, the virus had been detected in only a few cases in the seminal fluid of infected persons.	Sexual intercourse with a steady partner with no contact history does not pose any risk of infection. However, sexual intercourse with unknown people should be avoided as their COVID-19 status cannot be confirmed, source - https://europepmc.org/article/PMC/PMC730113


COVID-19 infection-related myths
COVID-19 affects only older people.	More deaths reported in elderly worldwide	The new coronavirus can infect people of all ages. Older people and people with pre-existing medical conditions (such as asthma, diabetes, and cardiovascular diseases) are more vulnerable to acquiring infection due to poor immunity.	WHO advises people of all ages to take all adequate steps to protect themselves from the virus (good hand hygiene and good respiratory hygiene)
People who get the coronavirus   or COVID-19 will die.	Nature is trying to revive, and COVID-19 is Nature's or God's way to reduce population.	About 80−90% of persons infected with COVID-19 are asymptomatic or have milder flu symptoms, and the death rate is below 2%.	Not to panic or get afraid if you are infected with COVID-19. In most of instances, it will be a milder form of flu-like illness. The HCWs will take appropriate measures if the condition worsens (which is seen in 8−10% cases), mostly in those with pre-existing chronic medical illnesses.
The Indian Immune system is better than the West, and thus, Indians will survive Covid-19 infection better.	Indians have a good diet and more robust and hard-working so COVID-19 can't affect us.	No such comparative data on the immune system of Indians Vs. West is available.	Need to consider that people of all ages, of all races and ethnicity, are equally prone to contract the COVID-19 infection
COVID-19 can be treated by colloidal silver, vitamins, teas, and essential oils.	These materials have anti-bactericidal and anti-viral properties.	No evidence for any special role for colloidal silver, vitamins, teas, and essential oils in dealing with COVID-19.	Not to follow   or believe any such procedures or unless approved by the National and International Health authorities.
Having had malaria makes one immune.	Chloroquine or Hydroxy Chloroquine is being used to treat COVID-19, which is an anti-malarial drug.	No evidence yet in this regard. If this was true, then considering India to be the Malaria capital of the World should have low case load, which is untrue.	People should take adequate measures to remain protected from getting infected by malaria as well as COVID-19.
Anti-bacterial drugs are effective for therapy of COVID-19 is a viral infection; therefore anti-bacterial agents are not effective for treating COVID-19 but are useful for treating secondary bacterial infections.	No need to stock   or  pile antibiotics and always use antibiotics rationally and only when advised by a medical practitioner.


Miscellaneous
Hand sanitizers are better than soap and water.	Alcohol-based sanitizers are the most potent disinfectants.	Hand hygiene measures by either alcohol sanitizers or soap and water are equally effective in protecting one from getting infected.	No need to buy hand sanitizers or hoard sanitizers. Simple soap and water is an equally effective strategy that can be followed.
Thermal scanners can detect COVID-19 Thermal scanners can only detect fever, which is one of the usual symptoms of COVID-19, but a person infected with COVID-19 may take 2–10 days after infection to develop fever.	Not 100 % effective screening method.
If the public water supply is contaminated with COVID-19, the entire community will be infected.	--	No evidence that the virus can spread through the water supply. In fact, the treatment in water facilities   or  having a good shower can protect from getting infected.	No need to believe in this myth.
Those immunized with BCG are more likely not to get COVID-19 infection	BCG vaccine improves immunity against all infections.	There is no evidence that the BCG vaccine protects people against infection with COVID-19. WHO to date has not recommended BCG vaccination for prevention of COVID-19, few trials are underway though.	BCG Vaccination prevents severe forms of Tuberculosis. In the absence of evidence regarding any efficacy of BCG in COVID-19, people should refrain from believing the BCG vaccine is protective against COVID-19. It can lead to a false sense of security and hence should not be believed unless proved.
No vaccine can be developed against COVID-19 infection.	God has sent COVID-19 as a declaration suggesting the end of the human race.	Researchers are actively engaged in developing a vaccine against COVID-19. However, clinical trials on a vaccine for COVID-19 may take a long time (months) to reach definite results.	The public needs to keep patience and to wait until any news about the vaccine is published by trustworthy websites   or news or declared by the WHO. Refrain from believing on any random news about the vaccine being discovered
Open in a separate window
DB RCT Double blind Randomised controlled trial.

The myths listed in the table have been discussed so as to disseminate knowledge and information with regard to COVID-19 (Tandon, 2020) as these are being circulated on various social media platforms and can be regarded as a potential source of anxiety related to COVID-19. Those myths related to spreading   or transmission of COVID-19 have been bothering the public to think twice before using newspapers   or vegetables etc. and many are avoiding non-vegetarian foods with the fear of being infected. Further, many have hoarded or stockpiled antibiotics, essential oils, Vitamin C tablets, masks, sanitizers, etc. to protect themselves from running out of stock of these commodities. These myths can also lead to a false sense of security of being immune to the infection and resultant exposure to high-risk situations.

Harboring such myths can be detrimental to society as all these create a hue and cry and chaos among the people. People need to understand that spreading such information can be punishable. In this regard, the Cyber Police   or Cyber cell has been active (“WhatsApp Admin Warned For Fake Coronavirus Post, 2020) and have traced all those persons circulating wrong messages and tried to demystify many myths through telecommunication awareness programs (DelhiMarch 20., I.G.N., March 20, 2020). There have been instances of persons being heavily fined or being arrested when found to be spreading false claims of treating   or curing COVID-19 (Bhandari, 2020a).

If we compare the myths related to COVID-19 with myths related to leprosy, tuberculosis and Flu, there are some commonalities about the major themes of myths, i.e., the myths mainly prevail around the causation, disease transmission, and cure. However, the COVID-19 infection has emerged very recently and affected almost all the countries of the World in a short span of time. Accordingly, the myths related to its spread, transmission are much more. This is complicated because there is social media's availability to almost everyone in the World. Hence, these myths spread very fast and extensively across the globe. Further, lack of any potential medicine   or cure   or vaccine has also led to the emergence of multiple claims about the various aspects of COVID-19 infection.

Some of the facts that are not yet clear, but there is some evidence to support the same. Accordingly, these facts cannot be labeled as myths. Emerging evidence suggests that there could be the faeco-oral transmission of COVID-19 infection or SARS-nCoV-2. Recent studies indicate that prolonged viral shedding in feces is seen in symptomatic patients with COVID-19 as well as in those recovered from COVID-19 (more so in children) (Wu et al., 2020; Xu et al., 2020; Yeo et al., 2020). Therefore, as the research evidence is growing at a faster rate about different aspects of COVID-19, we need to be aware of the potential facts about the illness and not to believe in any facts which have no authentic evidence or not claimed by any International Health body (like WHO).

  
Interaction between myths related to COVID-19 and public stigma
The very nature of the myth is that it gets publicized widely in a very short time, and people tend to follow a myth without questioning its authenticity or evidence for   or against a myth. Moreover, during a pandemic, crowd psychology plays a major driving force in believing and practicing a ritual   or procedure to find a solution. Certain acts   or beliefs can enhance public stigma related to COVID-19. Both myths and public stigma get combined, shaping society's behavior toward disease and those infected by the same. Many myths related to the spread of infection are compounded with the stigma associated with patients recovered from COVID-19 infection and the health care workers (HCWs), working in COVID-19 wards   or hospitals. These are leading to a social boycott of people such as debarring HCWs to stay in the same housing society (Bhandari, 2020b; COVID-19: Doctors, beaten and harassed plan, 2020), asking them to stay away from the public, avoiding interaction with the persons recovered from COVID-19 infection or those suspected of having COVID-19 infection, etc, source - https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-stigma-effect/202004/the-stigma-covid-19.

Therefore, a proper and planned awareness program taking into account all the stakeholders is the need of the hour, which can help change society's outlook from following the unhealthy   or un-acceptable norms   or myths to acceptable   or healthy evidence-based norms, , source - https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-stigma-effect/202004/the-stigma-covid-19.

The Government and the media have a significant role in dealing with the prevailing and emerging myths related to COVID-19 infection. One of the main responsibilities of the Government and the health care authorities is to deal with the widely prevalent and rapidly spreading new misconceptions   or myths related to COVID-19. If these are not curtailed, then these can be very detrimental. Leaders   or health officials should look at the evidence before endorsing anything related to spreading, prevention and treatment of COVID-19 infection, and leaders   or health officials should look at the evidence, rather than blindly supporting the same. Additionally, if something is found to be of use, for example, some of the things, which are claimed to improve the immunity, and then the leaders   or health officials should clearly state that the evidence of generic nature, rather than specific for COVID-19 and the strategy has not been evaluated specifically for COVID-19, source - https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-stigma-effect/202004/the-stigma-covid-19.

Further, they should say that these strategies are not a substitute for the proven hand hygiene measures, use of masks, and maintaining physical distancing. More awareness activities and messages should be delivered through all possible means (Telecommunication   or advertisements    or distributing pamphlets   or  holding public webinars etc.) to counter the emerging myths. Additionally, strict legal action needs to be taken against people spreading fake news   or making false claims during the pandemic. More and more stringent action and punishments must be declared by the Judiciary system to control the spread of myths   or fake claims. The mainstream media should also be very cautious in presenting the different information about the COVID-19 infection. Media, in its enthusiasm, should not try to discuss the studies evaluating the scientific evidence for various issues related to COVID-19 infection, until and unless these have some public message and have been proved unequivocally, source - https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/the-stigma-effect/202004/the-stigma-covid-19.

The public should be made aware that they should always follow authentic websites such as WHO website, CDC website or Ministry of Health and Family Welfare website of India (mohfw.in) to gain knowledge and stay updated regarding COVID-19. The public should be made aware of questioning the authenticity or level of evidence of a publicized treatment or strategy being circulated or advocated by any person or group of persons before believing any fact blindly. Further, awareness should be raised to follow the evidence-based preventive measures such as hand hygiene, social distancing, and infection control measures to safeguard against getting infected.

  
Conclusions
Myths have been widely prevalent about various diseases since time immemorial. Myths have a cultural influence and can have a varying degree of impact over the society. Many myths have been related to other infections (Leprosy, Tuberculosis, Flu   or Influenza), but with time and evidence-based approaches, these have proved to be wrong. The current COVID-19 pandemic and its uncertainty had given rise to various myths. Some of these myths are leading to widespread stigma in society. Additionally, these myths have the potential of making people over-complacent and resultantly more at risk of developing the infection.

All these myths are having a widespread impact on public viewpoint and disease transmission. Therefore, possible and prompt steps should be taken by appropriate authorities to demystify the myths in due time. Considering the current status of COVID-19 infection to be so dynamic, people should evaluate things properly, before considering them to be useful.

The clinical spectrum of COVID-19 varies from
being asymptomatic to clinical conditions
characterized by respiratory failure.
Management of the disease is mostly supportive
in the form of oxygen supplementation, noninvasive ventilation and in severe cases,
mechanical ventilation. There is no specific
antiviral treatment available nor is there any
vaccine available. The most important step to
curb this disease is prevention of the spread by
social distancing and strict hand hygiene. This
review article describes various myths and facts
about COVID-19 and various preventive
measures which should be followed to limit the
spread of this disease.

A pandemic is a disease epidemic which
has spread across a large region to include multiple
continents or has attained worldwide proportions.
Corona virus infection has attained global
proportions and has qualified itself to be labelled as
a pandemic. Corona Virus disease causes a form of
pneumonia and was first detected in Wuhan, China.
It was first reported to the WHO Country Office in
China on 31 December 2019. As they were unable
to identify the causative agent, these first cases
were classified as   pneumonia of unknown etiology
which is now attributed to a novel virus belonging
to the coronavirus (CoV) family.  COVID-19   is
the acronym of   coronavirus disease 2019   and the
causative virus seems to be very contagious and has
quickly spread globally. As on 31 March 2020,
there were 7,54,948 confirmed cases, 36,571
confirmed deaths and 203 countries affected by
Coronovirus as per WHO statistics report.
TRANSMISSION
Because the first cases of the CoVID-19
disease were linked to direct exposure to the
Huanan Seafood Wholesale Market of Wuhan, the
animal-to-human transmission was presumed as the
main mechanism. Subsequent cases were not
associated with this exposure mechanism hence it
was concluded that the virus could also be
transmitted from human-to-human,
and symptomatic people are the most frequent
source of COVID-19 spread. The transmission is
believed to occur through respiratory droplets from
coughing and sneezing. Aerosol transmission is
also possible in case of protracted exposure to
elevated aerosol concentrations in closed spaces.
Analysis of data related to the spread of SARSCoV-2 in China seems to indicate that close contact
between individuals is necessary. The spread, in
fact, is primarily limited to family members,
healthcare professionals, and other close contacts.
PRESENTATION
The clinical spectrum of COVID-19 varies
from being asymptomatic to clinical conditions
characterized by respiratory failure that necessitates
mechanical ventilation and support in an intensive
care unit, to sepsis, septic shock, and multiple
organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS).The most
frequent manifestations are fever, malaise, dry
cough, and dyspnoea.
Patients with mild or uncomplicated
illness may present with symptoms of an upper
respiratory tract viral infection, including mild
fever, cough, sore throat, nasal congestion, malaise,
headache, bodyache or malaise. Some patients may
have moderate illness and may have respiratory
symptoms such as cough and shortness of breath.
Severe illness may present as fever associated with
severe dyspnoea, respiratory distress, tachypnoea,
and hypoxia.
MANAGEMENT
The first therapeutic approach of patients
with severe illness is oxygen therapy. The next step
if the patient doesnt respond to oxygen
supplementation is Non invasive ventilation (NIV)
followed by intubation and invasive mechanical
ventilation.
There is no specific antiviral treatment
recommended for COVID-19 nor is any vaccine
available. The treatment is symptomatic and
oxygen therapy represents supportive treatment for
patients with severe infection. Mechanical
ventilation may be necessary in cases of respiratory

failure refractory to oxygen therapy whereas
hemodynamic support is essential for managing
septic shock.
WHO SHOULD BE TESTED
Anyone who has had close contact with a
patient with laboratory-confirmed COVID-19
within 14 days of onset of symptoms or a history of
travel from affected geographical
areas (presently China, Italy, Iran, Japan, and South
Korea).
PREVENTION
Preventive measures are strategy to limit
the spread of cases. Preventive measures
recommended by WHO are as follows:
   Avoid close contact with subjects suffering
from acute respiratory infections.
   Wash your hands frequently, especially after
contact with infected people or their
environment.
   Avoid unprotected contact with farm or wild
animals.
   People with symptoms of acute airway
infection should keep their distance, cover
coughs or sneezes with disposable tissues or
clothes and wash their hands.
Strengthen, in particular, in emergency
medicine departments, the application of strict
hygiene measures for the prevention and
control of infections.
   Individuals that are immune-compromised
should avoid public gatherings.
The most important strategy to undertake
is to frequently wash hands and use hand sanitizer.
Healthcare workers caring for infected individuals
should utilize contact and airborne precautions to
include PPE such as N ninety five masks, eye protection,
gowns, and gloves to prevent transmission of the
pathogen.
PROGNOSIS
Preliminary data suggests the reported
death rate ranges from 1% to 2% depending on the
immune status, genetic make up and country of
origin. The majority of the fatalities have occurred
in patients over 50 years of age who have an
immunocompromised status. Young children
appear to be mildly infected but may serve as a
vector for additional transmission.
WHO IS AT HIGH RISK
Individuals at extremes of ages and those
that are immunocompromised are at most
significant risk. All health care workers including
paramedical staff and non technical staff working
in health care facilities are at risk of being infected
WHO ALL NEED TO WEAR A MASK
Everyone need not wear a mask. You may wear a
mask under the following circumstances:
   You have symptoms in the form of cough,
fever or difficulty in breathing.
   You are caring for a COVID-19
suspect  or confirmed patient.
   You are a health care worker attending to
patients with respiratory symptoms.
Wearing a mask generally prevents spread of
infection from one who is wearing the mask to
others present in the vicinity.
Disposal of used masks
Used masks may be disposed off safely in
a sealed envelope in a trash bin or by burning or
burial to prevent spread of infection to other
people.
Hand washing
Hand hygiene is one of the essential
means to prevent the spread of infection.
Semmelweis highlighted that cleansing
contaminated hands with antiseptic products before
and after contact with patients may reduce health
care-associated infections [1]. Hand hygiene has
been considered the leading measure to prevent
spread of infections [2]. Hand washing with a
foaming soap and copious amounts of water for
atleast 20 seconds has been found to be effective
and use of an alcohol-based hand rub preparation
for hand hygiene has been defined as the standard
of care3. According to the World Health
Organization (WHO),   an alcohol-containing
preparation (liquid, gel or foam) designed for
application to the hands inactivates microorganisms
and  or or temporarily suppresses their growth. Such
preparations may contain one or more types of
alcohol, other active ingredients with excipients,
and humectants   and are very effective for quickly
destroying many pathogens by the action of the
aqueous alcohol solution without the need for water
or drying with towels .

Italy despite having world class health
care infrastructure, has been badly hit by COVID19. One of the reasons cited is the demographic
make-up of the country which predominantly
constitutes elderly people who somehow are at
increased risk to the infection, may be because of
their immune-compromised status.


India and Africa despite being densely
populated, have been less severely affected by this
deadly virus. One of the reasons cited is the
prevalence of malaria which may have provided
herd immunity.

Screening is defined as the presumptive
identification of an unrecognized disease in an
apparently healthy, asymptomatic population by
means of tests, examinations or other procedures
that can be applied rapidly and easily to the target
population. Infrared Forehead Thermometer Gun
measures body temperature accurately to screen
people for fever, one of the symptoms
of coronavirus infection without any touch to avoid
getting infection.

Quarantine is a restriction on the
movement of people which is intended to prevent
the spread of a communicable disease.

Self-quarantine means staying at your
home, hotel room or provided accommodation, and
not leaving for the period you are required
to quarantine and not allowing any visitors.

In health care facilities, isolation
represents one of several measures that can be
taken to implement infection control: the
prevention of contagious diseases from being
spread from a patient to other patients, health care
workers, and visitors, or from outsiders to a
particular patient.

Social distancing is a non-pharmaceutical
infection prevention and control intervention
implemented to avoid  or decrease contact between
those who are infected with a disease causing
pathogen and those who are not, to stop or slow
down the rate and extent of disease transmission in
a community. Preventing crowds helps in social
distancing and maintaining a distance of at least 1
metre (3 feet) is recommended.

The incubation period (time from
exposure to the development of symptoms) of the
virus is estimated to be between 0 and 24 days.
Understanding the incubation period is very
important for health authorities as it allows them to
introduce more effective quarantine systems for
people suspected of carrying the virus, as a way of
controlling and hopefully preventing the spread of
the virus.

A curfew is an order issued by public
authorities specifying a time during which
individuals are required to return to and stay at
their homes.
Janta curfew
Janata curfew means for the public,
curfew imposed by the public on its own. Prime
minister Mr. Narendra Modi appealed to the public
to stay home and take part in a 'Janata Curfew' on
22nd March in view of the coronavirus outbreak.

A lockdown is an emergency protocol
initiated by the state that usually prevents people
from leaving an area. A
full lockdown usually means that people must stay
where they are and may not move.
Breaking the chain of infection
The chain of infection is made up of the
pathogen, reservoir, portal of exit, modes of
transmission, portal of entry and the host. Hand
washing is the number one way to break the chain
of infection.

Government of India imposed measures
 never seen before either in peace or war  and
persuaded 130 billion Indians to follow advise to
stay home, stay safe and help save lives.

The language being used in the media to
describe the outbreak is undoubtedly contributing
to the mass hysteria about the disease. This media
hype about the disease has led the retailers around
the world to ration toilet paper and pharmacies
black market masks and hand sanitizers. The
relentless dominance of the coronavirus story in the
media and the alarmist rhetoric of the stories has
fuelled panic and anxiety about the disease in the
general public. One of the reasons why there is
obviously so much fear and anxiety is because it's a
new disease and there is a general feeling of „the
fear of unknown. In fact they have converted this
pandemic into an infodemic: an over-abundance of
information.


COVID-19 has been associated with a
deep and rapid economic crisis much worse than
economic meltdowns in the past. The shock to the
global economy from Covid-19 has been faster and
more severe than the 2008 global financial crisis
and even the Great Depression.

How difficult is it to stay home, it is really difficult for the male species to
stay at home. They are really finding it difficult to
remain confined to their homes despite a strict lock
down imposed by the administrative authorities.
Anything imposed is difficult to implement. Janta
curfew was better followed probably because it was
voluntary compared to the lock down which the
police is finding difficult to implement. The irony
is that the government has an equally difficult task
at hand when it has to plead to public to go out and
vote on Election day as imposing a curfew during
the Corona lockdown

As per WHO, there is no evidence to
suggests that pets such as dogs and cats have
infected humans with Covid-19.
Infection transmission by mosquito bite
There is no study to suggest that COVID19 are spreads by mosquito as for a virus to pass to
a person through a mosquito bite, the virus must be
able to replicate within the mosquito.

Chicken Consumption is basically an animal virus and
the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India
(FSSAI) has confirmed that there is no scientific
evidence to show that coronavirus spreads through
eating chicken, mutton and seafood.

Corona virus remains active, stable and
infectious for about 72 hours on cardboard and
plastic. Hence your courier delivery from Amazon
or Flipkart, your favourite dish you ordered from
Zomato or Swiggy, milk or grocery you ordered
online may provide corona virus a window of
opportunity to get inside your house.

Religious gatherings and services are
being suspended across the country because
closely-knit faith groups and pilgrims have
emerged as major spreaders of the coronavirus
disease.

Greeting the Indian way
In an effort to stop the spread of
the coronavirus, more people, including global
leaders, are using the Indian greeting of Namaste
which can never cause a contagion whereas the
English greetings or Muslim embracing can.

Corona virus disease is a rapidly spreading
and a highly infectious disease with low mortality
rates. Social distancing is an important measure
being adopted world wide to delay the spread of the
disease. Namaste, the Indian way to exchange
pleasantries has been adopted by global leaders and
diplomats and has been named as non contact
diplomacy in these tough times. Governments all
over have implemented lockdowns to delay the
spread of the disease so that the infection curve is
flattened.
The COVID-19 pandemic has been
associated with an infodemic and economic
pandemic.
Hand washing is the most important
measure to be adopted to prevent the spread of the
disease.

A vaccine is a biological preparation that provides active acquired immunity to a particular infectious disease. A vaccine typically contains a biological preparation from disease-causing microorganism, or since the beginning of the 21st century, made synthetically that resembles it. This preparation is often made from weakened or killed forms of the microbe, its toxins, or one of its surface proteins. The agent stimulates the body's immune system to recognize the agent as a threat and starts producing antibodies against it, so as to further recognize and destroy any of the microorganisms associated with that agent that it may encounter in the future. Vaccines can be prophylactic (to prevent or ameliorate the effects of a future infection by a natural or "wild" pathogen), or therapeutic (to fight a disease that has already occurred, such as cancer).[3][4][5][6]

The administration of vaccines is called vaccination. Vaccination is the most effective method of preventing infectious diseases; widespread immunity due to vaccination is largely responsible for the worldwide eradication of smallpox and the restriction of diseases such as polio, measles, and tetanus from much of the world. The effectiveness of vaccination has been widely studied and verified;[8] for example, vaccines that have proven effective include the influenza vaccine,[9] the HPV vaccine,[10] and the chicken pox vaccine.[11] The World Health Organization (WHO) reports that licensed vaccines are currently available for twenty-five different preventable infections.

The terms vaccine and vaccination are derived from Variolae vaccinae (smallpox of the cow), the term devised by Edward Jenner (who both developed the concept of vaccines and created the first vaccine) to denote cowpox. He used the phrase in 1798 for the long title of his Inquiry into the Variolae vaccinae Known as the Cow Pox, in which he described the protective effect of cowpox against smallpox.[13] In 1881, to honor Jenner, Louis Pasteur proposed that the terms should be extended to cover the new protective inoculations then being developed

There is overwhelming scientific consensus that vaccines are a very safe and effective way to fight and eradicate infectious diseases.[16][17][18][19] The immune system recognizes vaccine agents as foreign, destroys them, and "remembers" them. When the virulent version of an agent is encountered, the body recognizes the protein coat on the virus, and thus is prepared to respond, by first neutralizing the target agent before it can enter cells, and secondly by recognizing and destroying infected cells before that agent can multiply to vast numbers.

Limitations to their effectiveness, nevertheless, exist.[20] Sometimes, protection fails because of vaccine-related failure such as failures in vaccine attenuation, vaccination regimes or administration or host-related failure due to host's immune system simply does not respond adequately or at all. Lack of response commonly results from genetics, immune status, age, health or nutritional status.[21] It also might fail for genetic reasons if the host's immune system includes no strains of B cells that can generate antibodies suited to reacting effectively and binding to the antigens associated with the pathogen.

Even if the host does develop antibodies, protection might not be adequate; immunity might develop too slowly to be effective in time, the antibodies might not disable the pathogen completely, or there might be multiple strains of the pathogen, not all of which are equally susceptible to the immune reaction. However, even a partial, late, or weak immunity, such as a one resulting from cross-immunity to a strain other than the target strain, may mitigate an infection, resulting in a lower mortality rate, lower morbidity, and faster recovery.[citation needed]

Adjuvants commonly are used to boost immune response, particularly for older people (50–75 years and up), whose immune response to a simple vaccine may have weakened.[22]

The efficacy or performance of the vaccine is dependent on a number of factors:

the disease itself (for some diseases vaccination performs better than for others)
the strain of vaccine (some vaccines are specific to, or at least most effective against, particular strains of the disease)[23]
whether the vaccination schedule has been properly observed.
idiosyncratic response to vaccination; some individuals are "non-responders" to certain vaccines, meaning that they do not generate antibodies even after being vaccinated correctly.
assorted factors such as ethnicity, age, or genetic predisposition.
If a vaccinated individual does develop the disease vaccinated against (breakthrough infection), the disease is likely to be less virulent than in unvaccinated victims.[24]

The following are important considerations in the effectiveness of a vaccination program:[25]

careful modeling to anticipate the effect that an immunization campaign will have on the epidemiology of the disease in the medium to long term
ongoing surveillance for the relevant disease following introduction of a new vaccine
maintenance of high immunization rates, even when a disease has become rare.
In 1958, there were 763,094 cases of measles in the United States; 552 deaths resulted.[26][27] After the introduction of new vaccines, the number of cases dropped to fewer than 150 per year (median of 56).[27] In early 2008, there were 64 suspected cases of measles. Fifty-four of those infections were associated with importation from another country, although only 13% were actually acquired outside the United States; 63 of the 64 individuals either had never been vaccinated against measles or were uncertain whether they had been vaccinated.[27]

Vaccines led to the eradication of smallpox, one of the most contagious and deadly diseases in humans.[28] Other diseases such as rubella, polio, measles, mumps, chickenpox, and typhoid are nowhere near as common as they were a hundred years ago thanks to widespread vaccination programs. As long as the vast majority of people are vaccinated, it is much more difficult for an outbreak of disease to occur, let alone spread. This effect is called herd immunity. Polio, which is transmitted only between humans, is targeted by an extensive eradication campaign that has seen endemic polio restricted to only parts of three countries (Afghanistan, Nigeria, and Pakistan).[29] However, the difficulty of reaching all children as well as cultural misunderstandings have caused the anticipated eradication date to be missed several times.

Vaccines also help prevent the development of antibiotic resistance. For example, by greatly reducing the incidence of pneumonia caused by Streptococcus pneumoniae, vaccine programs have greatly reduced the prevalence of infections resistant to penicillin or other first-line antibiotics.[30]

The measles vaccine is estimated to prevent 1 million deaths every year.[31]

Adverse effects
Vaccinations given to children, adolescents, or adults are generally safe.[32][33] Adverse effects, if any, are generally mild.[34] The rate of side effects depends on the vaccine in question.[34] Some common side effects include fever, pain around the injection site, and muscle aches.[34] Additionally, some individuals may be allergic to ingredients in the vaccine.[35] MMR vaccine is rarely associated with febrile seizures.[33]

Host-("vaccinee")-related determinants that render a person susceptible to infection, such as genetics, health status (underlying disease, nutrition, pregnancy, sensitivities or allergies), immune competence, age, and economic impact or cultural environment can be primary or secondary factors affecting the severity of infection and response to a vaccine.[36] Elderly (above age 60), allergen-hypersensitive, and obese people have susceptibility to compromised immunogenicity, which prevents or inhibits vaccine effectiveness, possibly requiring separate vaccine technologies for these specific populations or repetitive booster vaccinations to limit virus transmission.[36]

Severe side effects are extremely rare.[33] Varicella vaccine is rarely associated with complications in immunodeficient individuals, and rotavirus vaccines are moderately associated with intussusception.[33]

At least 19 countries have no-fault compensation programs to provide compensation for those suffering severe adverse effects of vaccination.[37] The United States’ program is known as the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act, and the United Kingdom employs the Vaccine Damage Payment.

Types

Vaccine

Avian flu vaccine development by reverse genetics techniques.
Vaccines typically contain dead or inactivated organisms or purified products derived from them.

There are several types of vaccines in use.[38] These represent different strategies used to try to reduce the risk of illness while retaining the ability to induce a beneficial immune response.

Inactivated
Main article: Inactivated vaccine
Some vaccines contain inactivated, but previously virulent, micro-organisms that have been destroyed with chemicals, heat, or radiation.[39] Examples include the IPV polio vaccine, hepatitis A vaccine, rabies vaccine and most influenza vaccines.[40]

Attenuated
Main article: Attenuated vaccine
Some vaccines contain live, attenuated microorganisms. Many of these are active viruses that have been cultivated under conditions that disable their virulent properties, or that use closely related but less dangerous organisms to produce a broad immune response. Although most attenuated vaccines are viral, some are bacterial in nature. Examples include the viral diseases yellow fever, measles, mumps, and rubella, and the bacterial disease typhoid. The live Mycobacterium tuberculosis vaccine developed by Calmette and Guérin is not made of a contagious strain but contains a virulently modified strain called "BCG" used to elicit an immune response to the vaccine. The live attenuated vaccine containing strain Yersinia pestis EV is used for plague immunization. Attenuated vaccines have some advantages and disadvantages. Attenuated, or live, weakened, vaccines typically provoke more durable immunological responses. But they may not be safe for use in immunocompromised individuals, and on rare occasions mutate to a virulent form and cause disease.[41]

Toxoid
Main article: Toxoid
Toxoid vaccines are made from inactivated toxic compounds that cause illness rather than the micro-organism.[42] Examples of toxoid-based vaccines include tetanus and diphtheria. Toxoid vaccines are known for their efficacy.[40] Not all toxoids are for micro-organisms; for example, Crotalus atrox toxoid is used to vaccinate dogs against rattlesnake bites.[43]

Subunit
Main article: Subunit vaccine
Rather than introducing an inactivated or attenuated micro-organism to an immune system (which would constitute a "whole-agent" vaccine), a subunit vaccine uses a fragment of it to create an immune response. One example is the subunit vaccine against hepatitis B virus, that is composed of only the surface proteins of the virus (previously extracted from the blood serum of chronically infected patients, but now produced by recombination of the viral genes into yeast).[44] Another example is edible algae vaccines, such as the virus-like particle (VLP) vaccine against human papillomavirus (HPV), which is composed of the viral major capsid protein.[45] Another example is the hemagglutinin and neuraminidase subunits of the influenza virus.[40] A subunit vaccine is being used for plague immunization.[46]

Conjugate
Main article: Conjugate vaccine
Certain bacteria have a polysaccharide outer coat that is poorly immunogenic. By linking these outer coats to proteins (e.g., toxins), the immune system can be led to recognize the polysaccharide as if it were a protein antigen. This approach is used in the Haemophilus influenzae type B vaccine.[47]

Heterotypic
Main article: Heterologous vaccine
Heterologous vaccines also known as "Jennerian vaccines", are vaccines that are pathogens of other animals that either do not cause disease or cause mild disease in the organism being treated. The classic example is Jenner's use of cowpox to protect against smallpox. A current example is the use of BCG vaccine made from Mycobacterium bovis to protect against tuberculosis.[48]

RNA
Main article: RNA vaccine
An mRNA vaccine (or RNA vaccine) is a novel type of vaccine which is composed of the nucleic acid RNA, packaged within a vector such as lipid nanoparticles.[49] Among the COVID-19 vaccines are a number of RNA vaccines under development to combat the COVID-19 pandemic and some have received emergency use authorization.[50][51][52]

Experimental

Electroporation system for experimental "DNA vaccine" delivery
A number of innovative vaccines are also in development and in use:

Dendritic cell vaccines combine dendritic cells with antigens in order to present the antigens to the body's white blood cells, thus stimulating an immune reaction. These vaccines have shown some positive preliminary results for treating brain tumors [53] and are also tested in malignant melanoma.[54]
DNA vaccination – The proposed mechanism is the insertion and expression of viral or bacterial DNA in human or animal cells (enhanced by the use of electroporation), triggering immune system recognition. Some cells of the immune system that recognize the proteins expressed will mount an attack against these proteins and cells expressing them. Because these cells live for a very long time, if the pathogen that normally expresses these proteins is encountered at a later time, they will be attacked instantly by the immune system. One potential advantage of DNA vaccines is that they are very easy to produce and store.
Recombinant vector – by combining the physiology of one micro-organism and the DNA of another, immunity can be created against diseases that have complex infection processes. An example is the RVSV-ZEBOV vaccine licensed to Merck that is being used in 2018 to combat ebola in Congo.[55]
T-cell receptor peptide vaccines are under development for several diseases using models of Valley Fever, stomatitis, and atopic dermatitis. These peptides have been shown to modulate cytokine production and improve cell-mediated immunity.
Targeting of identified bacterial proteins that are involved in complement inhibition would neutralize the key bacterial virulence mechanism.[56]
The use of plasmids has been validated in preclinical studies as a protective vaccine strategy for cancer and infectious diseases. However, in human studies, this approach has failed to provide clinically relevant benefit. The overall efficacy of plasmid DNA immunization depends on increasing the plasmid's immunogenicity while also correcting for factors involved in the specific activation of immune effector cells.[57]
While most vaccines are created using inactivated or attenuated compounds from micro-organisms, synthetic vaccines are composed mainly or wholly of synthetic peptides, carbohydrates, or antigens.

Valence
Vaccines may be monovalent (also called univalent) or multivalent (also called polyvalent). A monovalent vaccine is designed to immunize against a single antigen or single microorganism.[58] A multivalent or polyvalent vaccine is designed to immunize against two or more strains of the same microorganism, or against two or more microorganisms.[59] The valency of a multivalent vaccine may be denoted with a Greek or Latin prefix (e.g., tetravalent or quadrivalent). In certain cases, a monovalent vaccine may be preferable for rapidly developing a strong immune response.[60]

When two or more vaccines are mixed together in the same formulation, the two vaccines can interfere. This most frequently occurs with live attenuated vaccines, where one of the vaccine components is more robust than the others and suppresses the growth and immune response to the other components. This phenomenon was first noted in the trivalent Sabin polio vaccine, where the amount of serotype 2 virus in the vaccine had to be reduced to stop it from interfering with the "take" of the serotype 1 and 3 viruses in the vaccine.[61] This phenomenon has also been found to be a problem with the dengue vaccines currently being researched,[when?] where the DEN-3 serotype was found to predominate and suppress the response to DEN-1, −2 and −4 serotypes.[62]

Other contents
Adjuvants
Main article: Immunologic adjuvant
Vaccines typically contain one or more adjuvants, used to boost the immune response. Tetanus toxoid, for instance, is usually adsorbed onto alum. This presents the antigen in such a way as to produce a greater action than the simple aqueous tetanus toxoid. People who have an adverse reaction to adsorbed tetanus toxoid may be given the simple vaccine when the time comes for a booster.[63]

In the preparation for the 1990 Persian Gulf campaign, whole cell pertussis vaccine was used as an adjuvant for anthrax vaccine. This produces a more rapid immune response than giving only the anthrax vaccine, which is of some benefit if exposure might be imminent.[64]

Preservatives
Vaccines may also contain preservatives to prevent contamination with bacteria or fungi. Until recent years, the preservative thiomersal (A.K.A. Thimerosal in the US and Japan) was used in many vaccines that did not contain live virus. As of 2005, the only childhood vaccine in the U.S. that contains thiomersal in greater than trace amounts is the influenza vaccine,[65] which is currently recommended only for children with certain risk factors.[66] Single-dose influenza vaccines supplied in the UK do not list thiomersal in the ingredients. Preservatives may be used at various stages of production of vaccines, and the most sophisticated methods of measurement might detect traces of them in the finished product, as they may in the environment and population as a whole.[67]

Many vaccines need preservatives to prevent serious adverse effects such as Staphylococcus infection, which in one 1928 incident killed 12 of 21 children inoculated with a diphtheria vaccine that lacked a preservative.[68] Several preservatives are available, including thiomersal, phenoxyethanol, and formaldehyde. Thiomersal is more effective against bacteria, has a better shelf-life, and improves vaccine stability, potency, and safety; but, in the U.S., the European Union, and a few other affluent countries, it is no longer used as a preservative in childhood vaccines, as a precautionary measure due to its mercury content.[69] Although controversial claims have been made that thiomersal contributes to autism, no convincing scientific evidence supports these claims.[70] Furthermore, a 10–11 year study of 657,461 children found that the MMR vaccine does not cause autism and actually reduced the risk of autism by 7 percent.[71][72]

Excipients
Beside the active vaccine itself, the following excipients and residual manufacturing compounds are present or may be present in vaccine preparations:[73]

Aluminum salts or gels are added as adjuvants. Adjuvants are added to promote an earlier, more potent response, and more persistent immune response to the vaccine; they allow for a lower vaccine dosage.
Antibiotics are added to some vaccines to prevent the growth of bacteria during production and storage of the vaccine.
Egg protein is present in the influenza vaccine and yellow fever vaccine as they are prepared using chicken eggs. Other proteins may be present.
Formaldehyde is used to inactivate bacterial products for toxoid vaccines. Formaldehyde is also used to inactivate unwanted viruses and kill bacteria that might contaminate the vaccine during production.
Monosodium glutamate (MSG) and 2-phenoxyethanol are used as stabilizers in a few vaccines to help the vaccine remain unchanged when the vaccine is exposed to heat, light, acidity, or humidity.
Thiomersal is a mercury-containing antimicrobial that is added to vials of vaccine that contain more than one dose to prevent contamination and growth of potentially harmful bacteria. Due to the controversy surrounding thiomersal it has been removed from most vaccines except multi-use influenza, where it was reduced to levels so that a single dose contained less than 1 micro-gram of mercury, a level similar to eating 10 g of canned tuna.[74]
Nomenclature
Various fairly standardized abbreviations for vaccine names have developed, although the standardization is by no means centralized or global. For example, the vaccine names used in the United States have well-established abbreviations that are also widely known and used elsewhere. An extensive list of them provided in a sortable table and freely accessible, is available at a US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention web page.[75] The page explains that "The abbreviations [in] this table (Column 3) were standardized jointly by staff of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, ACIP Work Groups, the editor of the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report (MMWR), the editor of Epidemiology and Prevention of Vaccine-Preventable Diseases (the Pink Book), ACIP members, and liaison organizations to the ACIP."[75]

Some examples are "DTaP" for diphtheria and tetanus toxoids and acellular pertussis vaccine, "DT" for diphtheria and tetanus toxoids, and "Td" for tetanus and diphtheria toxoids. At its page on tetanus vaccination,[76] the CDC further explains that "Upper-case letters in these abbreviations denote full-strength doses of diphtheria (D) and tetanus (T) toxoids and pertussis (P) vaccine. Lower-case "d" and "p" denote reduced doses of diphtheria and pertussis used in the adolescent/adult-formulations. The 'a' in DTaP and Tdap stands for 'acellular,' meaning that the pertussis component contains only a part of the pertussis organism."[76]

Another list of established vaccine abbreviations is at the CDC's page called "Vaccine Acronyms and Abbreviations", with abbreviations used on U.S. immunization records.[77] The United States Adopted Name system has some conventions for the word order of vaccine names, placing head nouns first and adjectives postpositively. This is why the USAN for "OPV" is "poliovirus vaccine live oral" rather than "oral poliovirus vaccine".

Licensure
A vaccine licensure occurs after the successful conclusion of the clinical trials program through Phases I–III demonstrating safety, immunogenicity at a specific dose, effectiveness at preventing infection in target populations, and enduring preventive effect.[78] As part of a multinational licensure for a vaccine, the World Health Organization Expert Committee on Biological Standardization developed guidelines of international standards for manufacturing and quality control of vaccines, a process intended as a platform for national regulatory agencies to apply for their own licensure process.[78] Vaccine manufacturers do not receive licensure until a complete clinical package proves the vaccine is safe and has long-term effectiveness, following scientific review by a multinational or national regulatory organization, such as the European Medicines Agency (EMA) or the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).[79][80]

Upon developing countries adopting WHO guidelines for vaccine development and licensure, each country has its own responsibility to issue a national licensure, and to manage, deploy, and monitor the vaccine throughout its use in each nation.[78] Building trust and acceptance of a licensed vaccine among the public is a task of communication by governments and healthcare personnel to ensure a vaccination campaign proceeds smoothly, saves lives, and enables economic recovery.[81][82] When a vaccine is licensed, it will initially be in limited supply due to variable manufacturing, distribution, and logistical factors, requiring an allocation plan for the limited supply and which population segments should be prioritized to first receive the vaccine.[81]

World Health Organization
Vaccines developed for multinational distribution via the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) require pre-qualification by the WHO to ensure international standards of quality, safety, immunogenicity, and efficacy for adoption by numerous countries.[78]

The process requires manufacturing consistency at WHO-contracted laboratories following Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP).[78] When UN agencies are involved in vaccine licensure, individual nations collaborate by 1) issuing marketing authorization and a national license for the vaccine, its manufacturers, and distribution partners; and 2) conducting postmarketing surveillance, including records for adverse events after the vaccination program. The WHO works with national agencies to monitor inspections of manufacturing facilities and distributors for compliance with GMP and regulatory oversight.[78]

Some countries choose to buy vaccines licensed by reputable national organizations, such as EMA, FDA, or national agencies in other affluent countries, but such purchases typically are more expensive and may not have distribution resources suitable to local conditions in developing countries.[78]

European Union
In the European Union (EU), vaccines for pandemic pathogens, such as seasonal influenza, are licensed EU-wide where all of the member states comply ("centralized"), are licensed for only some member states ("decentralized"), or are licensed on an individual national level.[79] Generally, all EU states follow regulatory guidance and clinical programs defined by the European Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), a scientific panel of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) responsible for vaccine licensure.[79] The CHMP is supported by several expert groups who assess and monitor the progress of a vaccine before and after licensure and distribution.[79]

United States
Under the FDA, the process of establishing evidence for vaccine clinical safety and efficacy is the same as for the approval process for prescription drugs.[83] If successful through the stages of clinical development, the vaccine licensing process is followed by a Biologics License Application which must provide a scientific review team (from diverse disciplines, such as physicians, statisticians, microbiologists, chemists) a comprehensive documentation for the vaccine candidate having efficacy and safety throughout its development. Also during this stage, the proposed manufacturing facility is examined by expert reviewers for GMP compliance, and the label must have compliant description to enable health care providers definition of vaccine specific use, including its possible risks, to communicate and deliver the vaccine to the public.[83] After licensure, monitoring of the vaccine and its production, including periodic inspections for GMP compliance, continue as long as the manufacturer retains its license, which may include additional submissions to the FDA of tests for potency, safety, and purity for each vaccine manufacturing step.[83]

Postmarketing surveillance
Until a vaccine is in use for the general population, all potential adverse events from the vaccine may not be known, requiring manufacturers to conduct Phase IV studies for postmarketing surveillance of the vaccine while it is used widely in the public.[78][83] The WHO works with UN member states to implement postlicensing surveillance.[78] The FDA relies on a Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System to monitor safety concerns about a vaccine throughout its use in the American public.[83]

Schedule
Main article: Vaccination schedule
For country-specific information on vaccination policies and practices, see Vaccination policy.

Share of children who receive key vaccines in 2016.[84]
In order to provide the best protection, children are recommended to receive vaccinations as soon as their immune systems are sufficiently developed to respond to particular vaccines, with additional "booster" shots often required to achieve "full immunity". This has led to the development of complex vaccination schedules. In the United States, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, which recommends schedule additions for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, recommends routine vaccination of children against[85] hepatitis A, hepatitis B, polio, mumps, measles, rubella, diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, HiB, chickenpox, rotavirus, influenza, meningococcal disease and pneumonia.[86]

The large number of vaccines and boosters recommended (up to 24 injections by age two) has led to problems with achieving full compliance. In order to combat declining compliance rates, various notification systems have been instituted and a number of combination injections are now marketed (e.g., Pneumococcal conjugate vaccine and MMRV vaccine), which provide protection against multiple diseases.

Besides recommendations for infant vaccinations and boosters, many specific vaccines are recommended for other ages or for repeated injections throughout life—most commonly for measles, tetanus, influenza, and pneumonia. Pregnant women are often screened for continued resistance to rubella. The human papillomavirus vaccine is recommended in the U.S. (as of 2011)[87] and UK (as of 2009).[88] Vaccine recommendations for the elderly concentrate on pneumonia and influenza, which are more deadly to that group. In 2006, a vaccine was introduced against shingles, a disease caused by the chickenpox virus, which usually affects the elderly.

Economics of development
Main article: Economics of vaccines
One challenge in vaccine development is economic: Many of the diseases most demanding a vaccine, including HIV, malaria and tuberculosis, exist principally in poor countries. Pharmaceutical firms and biotechnology companies have little incentive to develop vaccines for these diseases because there is little revenue potential. Even in more affluent countries, financial returns are usually minimal and the financial and other risks are great.[89]

Most vaccine development to date has relied on "push" funding by government, universities and non-profit organizations.[90] Many vaccines have been highly cost effective and beneficial for public health.[91] The number of vaccines actually administered has risen dramatically in recent decades.[92] This increase, particularly in the number of different vaccines administered to children before entry into schools may be due to government mandates and support, rather than economic incentive.[93]

Patents
The filing of patents on vaccine development processes can also be viewed as an obstacle to the development of new vaccines. Because of the weak protection offered through a patent on the final product, the protection of the innovation regarding vaccines is often made through the patent of processes used in the development of new vaccines as well as the protection of secrecy.[94]

According to the World Health Organization, the biggest barrier to local vaccine production in less developed countries has not been patents, but the substantial financial, infrastructure, and workforce expertise requirements needed for market entry. Vaccines are complex mixtures of biological compounds, and unlike the case of drugs, there are no true generic vaccines. The vaccine produced by a new facility must undergo complete clinical testing for safety and efficacy similar to that undergone by that produced by the original manufacturer. For most vaccines, specific processes have been patented. These can be circumvented by alternative manufacturing methods, but this required R&D infrastructure and a suitably skilled workforce. In the case of a few relatively new vaccines such as the human papillomavirus vaccine, the patents may impose an additional barrier.[95]

Production

Two workers make openings in chicken eggs in preparation for production of measles vaccine.
Vaccine production has several stages. First, the antigen itself is generated. Viruses are grown either on primary cells such as chicken eggs (e.g., for influenza) or on continuous cell lines such as cultured human cells (e.g., for hepatitis A).[96] Bacteria are grown in bioreactors (e.g., Haemophilus influenzae type b). Likewise, a recombinant protein derived from the viruses or bacteria can be generated in yeast, bacteria, or cell cultures.[97][98]

After the antigen is generated, it is isolated from the cells used to generate it. A virus may need to be inactivated, possibly with no further purification required. Recombinant proteins need many operations involving ultrafiltration and column chromatography. Finally, the vaccine is formulated by adding adjuvant, stabilizers, and preservatives as needed. The adjuvant enhances the immune response to the antigen, stabilizers increase the storage life, and preservatives allow the use of multidose vials.[97][98] Combination vaccines are harder to develop and produce, because of potential incompatibilities and interactions among the antigens and other ingredients involved.[99]

The final stage in vaccine manufacture before distribution is fill and finish, which is the process of filling vials with vaccines and packaging them for distribution. Although this is a conceptually simple part of the vaccine manufacture process, it is often a bottleneck in the process of distributing and administering vaccines.[100][101][102]

Vaccine production techniques are evolving. Cultured mammalian cells are expected to become increasingly important, compared to conventional options such as chicken eggs, due to greater productivity and low incidence of problems with contamination. Recombination technology that produces genetically detoxified vaccine is expected to grow in popularity for the production of bacterial vaccines that use toxoids. Combination vaccines are expected to reduce the quantities of antigens they contain, and thereby decrease undesirable interactions, by using pathogen-associated molecular patterns.[99]

Vaccine manufacturers
In 2012 the increasing role of Indian and Chinese vaccine manufacturers in meeting the global demand for vaccine doses was noted.[103] The Serum Institute of India was at that point the world's largest manufacturer of vaccines against measles and rubella, as well as combination DTP vaccines. The Serum Institute of India made a name for itself as developer of vaccines when it brought into production its measles vaccine using a MRC-5 cell culture instead of chicken eggs, allowing for a productivity increase at 10% to 20% compared to Merck Group and GlaxoSmithKline. In 2012 it was estimated that two out of three vaccinated children globally had been immunized using a vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. In 2012 China ranked as the largest vaccine manufacturing country in the world, with 46 registered vaccine manufacturers focusing on meeting China's domestic need for vaccine doses. 90% of doses for the Chinese National Immunization Program were supplied by the state-owned China National Pharmaceutical Group.[104]

Delivery systems

Woman receiving rubella vaccination, Brazil, 2008.
One of the most common methods of delivering vaccines into the human body is injection.

The development of new delivery systems raises the hope of vaccines that are safer and more efficient to deliver and administer. Lines of research include liposomes and ISCOM (immune stimulating complex).[105]

Notable developments in vaccine delivery technologies have included oral vaccines. Early attempts to apply oral vaccines showed varying degrees of promise, beginning early in the 20th century, at a time when the very possibility of an effective oral antibacterial vaccine was controversial.[106] By the 1930s there was increasing interest in the prophylactic value of an oral typhoid fever vaccine for example.[107]

An oral polio vaccine turned out to be effective when vaccinations were administered by volunteer staff without formal training; the results also demonstrated increased ease and efficiency of administering the vaccines. Effective oral vaccines have many advantages; for example, there is no risk of blood contamination. Vaccines intended for oral administration need not be liquid, and as solids, they commonly are more stable and less prone to damage or to spoilage by freezing in transport and storage.[108] Such stability reduces the need for a "cold chain": the resources required to keep vaccines within a restricted temperature range from the manufacturing stage to the point of administration, which, in turn, may decrease costs of vaccines.

A microneedle approach, which is still in stages of development, uses "pointed projections fabricated into arrays that can create vaccine delivery pathways through the skin".[109]

An experimental needle-free[110] vaccine delivery system is undergoing animal testing.[111][112] A stamp-size patch similar to an adhesive bandage contains about 20,000 microscopic projections per square cm.[113] This dermal administration potentially increases the effectiveness of vaccination, while requiring less vaccine than injection.[114]

Veterinary medicine
See also: Influenza vaccine § Flu vaccine for nonhumans, and Vaccination of dogs

Goat vaccination against sheep pox and pleural pneumonia
Vaccinations of animals are used both to prevent their contracting diseases and to prevent transmission of disease to humans.[115] Both animals kept as pets and animals raised as livestock are routinely vaccinated. In some instances, wild populations may be vaccinated. This is sometimes accomplished with vaccine-laced food spread in a disease-prone area and has been used to attempt to control rabies in raccoons.

Where rabies occurs, rabies vaccination of dogs may be required by law. Other canine vaccines include canine distemper, canine parvovirus, infectious canine hepatitis, adenovirus-2, leptospirosis, bordatella, canine parainfluenza virus, and Lyme disease, among others.

Cases of veterinary vaccines used in humans have been documented, whether intentional or accidental, with some cases of resultant illness, most notably with brucellosis.[116] However, the reporting of such cases is rare and very little has been studied about the safety and results of such practices. With the advent of aerosol vaccination in veterinary clinics, human exposure to pathogens that are not naturally carried in humans, such as Bordetella bronchiseptica, has likely increased in recent years.[116] In some cases, most notably rabies, the parallel veterinary vaccine against a pathogen may be as much as orders of magnitude more economical than the human one.

DIVA vaccines
DIVA (Differentiation of Infected from Vaccinated Animals), also known as SIVA (Segregation of Infected from Vaccinated Animals) vaccines, make it possible to differentiate between infected and vaccinated animals.

DIVA vaccines carry at least one epitope less than the equivalent wild microorganism. An accompanying diagnostic test that detects the antibody against that epitope assists in identifying whether the animal has been vaccinated or not.

The first DIVA vaccines (formerly termed marker vaccines and since 1999 coined as DIVA vaccines) and companion diagnostic tests have been developed by J.T. van Oirschot and colleagues at the Central Veterinary Institute in Lelystad, The Netherlands.[117][118] They found that some existing vaccines against pseudorabies (also termed Aujeszky's disease) had deletions in their viral genome (among which was the gE gene). Monoclonal antibodies were produced against that deletion and selected to develop an ELISA that demonstrated antibodies against gE. In addition, novel genetically engineered gE-negative vaccines were constructed.[119] Along the same lines, DIVA vaccines and companion diagnostic tests against bovine herpesvirus 1 infections have been developed.[118][120]

The DIVA strategy has been applied in various countries and successfully eradicated pseudorabies virus. Swine populations were intensively vaccinated and monitored by the companion diagnostic test and, subsequently, the infected pigs were removed from the population. Bovine herpesvirus 1 DIVA vaccines are also widely used in practice.

Scientists have put and still, are putting much effort in applying the DIVA principle to a wide range of infectious diseases, such as, for example, classical swine fever,[121] avian influenza,[122] Actinobacillus pleuropneumonia[123] and Salmonella infections in pigs.[124]

History

A 1802 comparison of smallpox (left) and cowpox (right) inoculations 16 days after administration.
Prior to the introduction of vaccination with material from cases of cowpox (heterotypic immunisation), smallpox could be prevented by deliberate Variolation with smallpox virus. The earliest hints of the practice of variolation for smallpox in China come during the 10th century.[125] The Chinese also practiced the oldest documented use of variolation, dating back to the fifteenth century. They implemented a method of "nasal insufflation" administered by blowing powdered smallpox material, usually scabs, up the nostrils. Various insufflation techniques have been recorded throughout the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries within China.[126]:60 Two reports on the Chinese practice of inoculation were received by the Royal Society in London in 1700; one by Martin Lister who received a report by an employee of the East India Company stationed in China and another by Clopton Havers.[127]


1808 cartoon showing Jenner, Thomas Dimsdale and George Rose seeing off anti-vaccination opponents.
Mary Wortley Montagu, who had witnessed variolation in Turkey, had her four-year-old daughter variolated in the presence of physicians of the Royal Court in 1721 upon her return to England.[126] Later on that year Charles Maitland conducted an experimental variolation of six prisoners in Newgate Prison in London.[128] The experiment was a success, and soon variolation was drawing attention from the royal family, who helped promote the procedure. However, several days after Prince Octavius of Great Britain was inoculated he died in 1783.[129] In 1796 the physician Edward Jenner took pus from the hand of a milkmaid with cowpox, scratched it into the arm of an 8-year-old boy, James Phipps, and six weeks later variolated the boy with smallpox, afterwards observing that he did not catch smallpox.[130][131] Jenner extended his studies and in 1798 reported that his vaccine was safe in children and adults and could be transferred from arm-to-arm reducing reliance on uncertain supplies from infected cows.[132] Since vaccination with cowpox was much safer than smallpox inoculation,[133] the latter, though still widely practiced in England, was banned in 1840.[134]


French print in 1896 marking the centenary of Jenner's vaccine
Following on from Jenner's work, the second generation of vaccines was introduced in the 1880s by Louis Pasteur who developed vaccines for chicken cholera and anthrax,[14] and from the late nineteenth century vaccines were considered a matter of national prestige. National vaccination policies were adopted and compulsory vaccination laws were passed.[130] In 1931 Alice Miles Woodruff and Ernest Goodpasture documented that the fowlpox virus could be grown in embryonated chicken egg. Soon scientist cultivated other viruses in eggs. Eggs were used for virus propagation in the development of a yellow fever vaccine in 1935 and a influenza vaccine in 1945. In 1959 growth media and cell culture replaced eggs as the standard method of virus propagation for vaccines.[135]

The twentieth century saw the introduction of several successful vaccines, including those against diphtheria, measles, mumps, and rubella. Major achievements included the development of the polio vaccine in the 1950s and the eradication of smallpox during the 1960s and 1970s. Maurice Hilleman was the most prolific of the developers of the vaccines in the twentieth century. As vaccines became more common, many people began taking them for granted. However, vaccines remain elusive for many important diseases, including herpes simplex, malaria, gonorrhea, and HIV.[130][136]

Generations of vaccines

Vials of a anthrax vaccine and a smallpox vaccine.
First generation vaccines are whole-organism vaccines – either live and weakened, or killed forms.Live, attenuated vaccines, such as smallpox and polio vaccines, are able to induce killer T-cell (TC or CTL) responses, helper T-cell (TH) responses and antibody immunity. However, attenuated forms of a pathogen can convert to a dangerous form and may cause disease in immunocompromised vaccine recipients (such as those with AIDS). While killed vaccines do not have this risk, they cannot generate specific killer T cell responses and may not work at all for some diseases.[137]

Second generation vaccines were developed to reduce the risks from live vaccines. These are subunit vaccines, consisting of specific protein antigens (such as tetanus or diphtheria toxoid) or recombinant protein components (such as the hepatitis B surface antigen). They can generate TH and antibody responses, but not killer T cell responses.[citation needed]

RNA vaccines and DNA vaccines are examples of third generation vaccines.In 2016 a DNA vaccine for the Zika virus began testing at the National Institutes of Health. Separately, Inovio Pharmaceuticals and GeneOne Life Science began tests of a different DNA vaccine against Zika in Miami. Manufacturing the vaccines in volume was unsolved as of 2016.[140] Clinical trials for DNA vaccines to prevent HIV are underway.[141] mRNA vaccines such as BNT162b2 were developed in the year 2020 with the help of Operation Warp Speed and massively deployed to combat the coronavirus pandemic.

Fake News! COVID-19 vaccine won't turn you into a zombie. The side effects of the vaccine have been proved by scientists and turning into a zombie is certainly not one of them, source - https://www.businesstoday.in/coronavirus/fake-news-covid19-vaccine-wont-turn-you-into-a-zombie/story/426130.html.